---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '35515'
  title: 'A Force for Good: The Dalai Lama''s Vision for Our World'
  author: Daniel Goleman and Dalai Lama
  asin: B00NRQRWRS
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-03-05'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81XHY7k4PPL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 131
---
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

# A Force for Good

## Metadata
* Author: [Daniel Goleman and Dalai Lama](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B00NRQRWRS
* ISBN: 0553394894
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00NRQRWRS
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS)

## Highlights
transform even the most adverse circumstances into opportunities. — location: [58](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=58) ^ref-3954

---
my well-being depends on others and caring for others’ well-being is a moral responsibility I take seriously. — location: [62](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=62) ^ref-41266

---
Change in ourselves and in the world in which we live may not take place in a hurry; it will take time. But if we don’t make the effort nothing will happen at all. — location: [73](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=73) ^ref-17889

---
Real change will take place when individuals transform themselves guided — location: [75](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=75) ^ref-58755

---
by the values that lie at the core of all human ethical systems, scientific findings, and common sense. — location: [76](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=76) ^ref-21895

---
most tragedies are the result of a single deficiency: a lack of compassionate moral responsibility. Our morals should tell us our obligations to others, he says, as opposed to what we want for ourselves. — location: [96](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=96) ^ref-57157

---
That force begins by countering the energies within the human mind that drive our negativity. To change the future from a sorry retread of the past, the Dalai Lama tells us, we need to transform our own minds—weaken the pull of our destructive emotions and so strengthen our better natures. Without that inner shift, we stay vulnerable to knee-jerk reactions like rage, frustration, and hopelessness. Those only lead us down the same old forlorn paths. — location: [111](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=111) ^ref-35329

---
taking joy in the joy of others. — location: [168](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=168) ^ref-63645

---
He sees the oneness of humanity—the we—rather than getting lost in the us-and-them differences. — location: [246](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=246) ^ref-2456

---
Begin with looking inward and managing our own minds and hearts, he tells us. Then look outward from a more balanced place in ourselves, and consider the good we can do. — location: [269](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=269) ^ref-13100

---
Don’t be discouraged by the terrible news we hear; in reality, that reflects a small portion of the human story. — location: [271](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=271) ^ref-39069

---
Our course of action will be more — location: [313](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=313) ^ref-13112

---
compelling if guided by a positive vision, a guiding image of what things could be like one day. Considering what life could be like invites originality, new ideas, innovations. — location: [313](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=313) ^ref-41687

---
consider promising possibilities beyond the dark and dismal media messages we get daily. — location: [318](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=318) ^ref-32793

---
taking responsibility for better managing our own minds and emotions, which the Dalai Lama calls “emotional hygiene”: lessening the power of destructive emotions and fostering more-positive modes of being. — location: [322](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=322) ^ref-47218

---
compassion toward all. — location: [326](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=326) ^ref-14460

---
A science of compassion can help humanity, he argues, by putting human values on a firmer footing. — location: [328](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=328) ^ref-19419

---
help students cultivate tools for self-mastery and caring and for lives in keeping with these human values. If such education became a universal standard, coming generations would naturally act with compassion. — location: [342](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=342) ^ref-63443

---
recognizing the false hope — location: [349](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=349) ^ref-13313

---
for fulfillment through power, money, or fame; the pointlessness of rushing ourselves into a frazzle; and the gift of a life lived with generosity, discernment, and joy. — location: [350](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=350) ^ref-9578

---
Every one of us can be a force for good. — location: [376](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=376) ^ref-19166

---
such rapid recovery from a disturbing state as signifying resilience, one hallmark of well-being. — location: [419](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=419) ^ref-28472

---
“the enemies of our well-being”: negative feelings that either lead us to harm ourselves or others or undermine us through inner turbulence, constricting mental freedom. These he calls “destructive” or “afflictive” emotions. — location: [427](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=427) ^ref-22490

---
So, anger destroys our peace of mind and our physical health. We shouldn’t welcome it or think of it as natural or as a friend.” — location: [446](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=446) ^ref-37228

---
When we cultivate distaste for destructive emotions, we are better prepared when they come our way. — location: [451](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=451) ^ref-55082

---
When we are in the grip of anger, most of the negatives we perceive are wrong: “Ninety percent are mental projections.” — location: [462](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=462) ^ref-6869

---
The cognitive-therapy technique of talking back to self-defeating thoughts (rather than believing them and acting accordingly) — location: [464](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=464) ^ref-2892

---
The solution lies not in bottling up our negative feelings—which can intensify until they build to an outburst—but in being aware of them. By minding our feelings we can face them head-on, a first step to managing them well. — location: [474](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=474) ^ref-62073

---
While we can’t control when we feel anger or fear—or how strongly—we can gain some control over what we — location: [477](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=477) ^ref-34051

---
do while in their grip. — location: [478](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=478) ^ref-62023

---
there may be a bit of legitimacy to our grievances, are the disturbing emotions we feel way out of proportion? — location: [480](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=480) ^ref-37514

---
Are such feelings familiar, recurring again and again? If so, we would do well to gain more control over those self-defeating habits of mind. — location: [481](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=481) ^ref-49187

---
A Native American story has a father telling his son, “There are two wolves battling in my heart. One wolf is violent and dangerous, the other full of warmth and compassion.” The son asks, “Which wolf will win?” The answer: “The one I feed. — location: [516](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=516) ^ref-44244

---
When we stray toward our insecure side, we are more susceptible to a sea of negative feelings. A secure state, in contrast, diminishes our destructive emotions and amplifies our positive ones. — location: [541](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=541) ^ref-35402

---
No emotion on this map is intrinsically bad or good; they all have their uses in life. — location: [560](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=560) ^ref-34351

---
Only with a calm mind can you open your heart and use your — location: [610](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=610) ^ref-32556

---
all of which exaggerate the repulsive sides of someone or something. — location: [618](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=618) ^ref-10103

---
“But to kill other human beings in retribution, no matter what they have done…forecloses the possibility that they may change.” — location: [623](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=623) ^ref-56441

---
“Anger,” Eve observed, “was safer to explore than sadness—anger was their way out of sadness.” — location: [636](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=636) ^ref-26052

---
What would it be like for me to attain genuine happiness? What would I need from the world to achieve this? What would I need from myself—what habits would I need to learn? — location: [646](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=646) ^ref-17979

---
Finally, how could I bring this to the world and be of service? — location: [648](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=648) ^ref-41876

---
embrace a genuine concern for others, then in our daily lives we would not — location: [697](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=697) ^ref-48176

---
only be kinder but would also be freed from reactivity based on cynicism. — location: [697](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=697) ^ref-17651

---
a deeper awareness of how our emotional world affects the people around us leads to a more compassionate outlook. — location: [699](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=699) ^ref-7222

---
Their actions show, he observes, that “deep inside” they do not take their own religion’s moral values seriously and so distort or carefully select some textual sources while ignoring others, to serve their own ends. — location: [717](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=717) ^ref-16281

---
varying ideologies and religions—and among those who hold to no faith—by emphasizing values they share. — location: [732](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=732) ^ref-1575

---
Genuine happiness and compassion go hand in hand. — location: [736](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=736) ^ref-6696

---
Being what the Dalai Lama calls “foolish selfish” means pursuing our narrow self-interest in ways that will work in the short term but might later bring animosity toward us. — location: [816](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=816) ^ref-2527

---
“Wise selfish” means seeing that our own well-being lies in everybody’s welfare—in being compassionate. Compassion is good for you, the Dalai Lama points out, not just for those who are its object. And that’s his third point: The first person to benefit from compassion is the one who feels it. — location: [821](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=821) ^ref-52543

---
“Loving is of even greater importance than being loved.” — location: [825](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=825) ^ref-56855

---
To cultivate genuine compassion, we need to take responsibility for our own care and have concern for everyone’s suffering—including our own. — location: [849](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=849) ^ref-47232

---
“The sense of being special is a form of self-deception,” — location: [867](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=867) ^ref-3538

---
“In economics, we develop five-year and ten-year plans for change and growth. That’s fine. But we need similar plans to cultivate warmheartedness and compassion.” — location: [912](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=912) ^ref-48305

---
science as but one way of grasping reality, limited by its methodologies and assumptions, like any other way of knowing. Science knows well some aspects of reality but not the totality. — location: [1003](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1003) ^ref-2732

---
Compassion, the findings suggest, serves as an inoculation against empathy distress, with more activity in the brain centers for caring, which builds resiliency instead of burnout. — location: [1180](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1180) ^ref-55178

---
we all have a moral responsibility to face that pain and work to alleviate it. If we just get depressed and give up, he said, “The pain will have won.” — location: [1188](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1188) ^ref-60209

---
marshal the positive aspects of anger: a strong focus, extra energy, and determination—all — location: [1258](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1258) ^ref-63047

---
when our anger takes over; then our focus dissolves into obsession, our energy becomes agitation, and we lose all self-control. — location: [1259](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1259) ^ref-6426

---
we can take it without anger. In fact, we will see that the action is even more effective if it is not motivated by anger—we are much more likely to hit the target directly!” — location: [1264](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1264) ^ref-26883

---
If you let a wrongdoing happen, it might continue and increase, so, out of compassion, take appropriate countermeasures.” — location: [1268](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1268) ^ref-52107

---
“Not because it is something holy or sacred, but because it is of practical benefit.” — location: [1289](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1289) ^ref-12345

---
“Your own stand must be truthful, honest, and genuine, an altruistic attitude. — location: [1293](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1293) ^ref-44191

---
Full honesty lets us speak truth to power. — location: [1296](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1296) ^ref-10197

---
Corruption helps both to create poverty and to keep it in place; — location: [1305](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1305) ^ref-15284

---
And those who suffer have no access to the power to make decisions that would improve their conditions. — location: [1373](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1373) ^ref-51293

---
For a law to be just, it needs to protect the rights of everyone. — location: [1392](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1392) ^ref-14161

---
Our motives determine the moral value of what we do, and our financial system largely rewards greed while ignoring costs to people and the planet. — location: [1448](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1448) ^ref-18975

---
Wealth, he says, is for the good of society, not just for a single individual. — location: [1451](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1451) ^ref-9707

---
While the name “socialism” may sound good, he adds, if in reality money secretly goes into private pockets, then the word is just a cover for corruption. — location: [1459](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1459) ^ref-32100

---
of economics that’s the problem,” whether capitalism or socialism, but “a lack of moral principle in the people involved in that system.” — location: [1461](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1461) ^ref-63026

---
The compassionate economy the Dalai Lama envisions mixes entrepreneurial spirit with a sound social-support system and taxes on wealth— — location: [1470](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1470) ^ref-34129

---
that those with money to invest will always earn more than those who labor for their wages. Capitalism enriches the wealthy far more than it does workers. — location: [1474](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1474) ^ref-23348

---
the system’s moral core is neither profits nor efficiency. It is creating opportunity for individuals who need it the most.” — location: [1486](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1486) ^ref-44747

---
Small Is Beautiful: Economics as if People Mattered. — location: [1524](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1524) ^ref-22863

---
The pie being shared goes disproportionately to owners, at the expense of workers. — location: [1533](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1533) ^ref-52173

---
focusing only on sensory delights leaves us perpetually dissatisfied, because such pleasures are short-lived. — location: [1549](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1549) ^ref-33194

---
“cheapens life, feeding our lesser nature. — location: [1552](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1552) ^ref-49461

---
Material goods provide comfort for the physical body but not for the mind.” — location: [1566](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1566) ^ref-43143

---
Happiness, Layard’s research shows, depends much more on the quality of our personal relationships than on our income. — location: [1568](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1568) ^ref-24801

---
feeling kindness, affection, and trust within our circle of family and friends makes us happier than do luxuries. — location: [1570](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1570) ^ref-38365

---
If the goal of government were its people’s well-being, Layard argues, then it would regulate the economy to be more stable rather than in ways that help a few people become extremely wealthy. — location: [1574](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1574) ^ref-12596

---
“I will try to create more happiness and less unhappiness in the world around me.” — location: [1606](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1606) ^ref-20116

---
“We don’t hire people to bake brownies; we bake brownies to hire people.” — location: [1658](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1658) ^ref-38021

---
Called “B Corporations” in the United States, — location: [1660](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1660) ^ref-56860

---
Benioff’s company follows a “1:1:1” principle, giving one percent of profits, one percent of product, and one percent of employees’ time to worthy causes—a model he has been urging other tech firms to emulate. — location: [1695](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1695) ^ref-55883

---
“First take care of yourself financially. Then, step by step, stand on your own feet in order to help others.” — location: [1716](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1716) ^ref-28496

---
We all have the same potential but not the same opportunities,” — location: [1749](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1749) ^ref-3868

---
what lepers needed was not charity but dignified work. — location: [1775](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1775) ^ref-60199

---
“Charity destroys, work builds.” — location: [1787](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1787) ^ref-7549

---
The downtrodden also must help themselves. Any group that finds itself economically disadvantaged or discriminated against needs to fight against defeatist attitudes, he contends, and find the grit to attain a better life. — location: [1812](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1812) ^ref-49891

---
up at 4:00 A.M. for an intense physical workout—running, swimming, or spinning—and ready to start the day’s work at 6:00 A.M. — location: [1839](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=1839) ^ref-31157

---
if we harm nature, we essentially make poor people poorer, that harming nature contributes to poverty.” — location: [2071](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2071) ^ref-7494

---
In a change from a warrior-like society to a peaceful one at the worldwide level, the more peaceful world starts with the individual. — location: [2278](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2278) ^ref-37575

---
All these unhappy ways of acting are based on the concept — location: [2280](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2280) ^ref-44539

---
of us-and-them. We think we should just look after ourselves; I should look after me, and not care about anyone else. The worst: We exploit others.” — location: [2280](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2280) ^ref-31303

---
If we start by getting our own destructive nature under control, the Dalai Lama insists, we can better follow a path of respecting one another. — location: [2282](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2282) ^ref-7871

---
“Your life is my life, and your health is my health.” — location: [2316](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2316) ^ref-52526

---
The warmth we feel for one member of a group gradually widens to include the whole group—even across tense divides. — location: [2358](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2358) ^ref-3651

---
As a strategy, violence can lead to short-term gains, resolving some immediate problem, the Dalai Lama notes, but those gains tend to be transient, resulting in other problems over time. So while nonviolence may take more time, its long-term benefits are greater. — location: [2408](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2408) ^ref-60786

---
resorting to force never addresses the underlying causes of conflict, failing to resolve them and often making them worse—not to mention the needless pain, suffering, and destruction left in the wake of force. — location: [2425](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2425) ^ref-49993

---
instead of “using their religious faith and resources to transform their own personality and character, they impose their personality on the religion. — location: [2462](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2462) ^ref-44411

---
the true meaning of “jihad” has nothing to do with attacking other people but rather with combating our own destructive emotions: It means the self-discipline to restrain yourself from harming anyone. — location: [2469](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2469) ^ref-6218

---
External disarmament starts with inner disarmament. Our peacefulness is not just for our own benefit but also helps the people around us. — location: [2491](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2491) ^ref-58007

---
Both sides, left and right, he said, agree on a common objective: what’s best for people. — location: [2496](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2496) ^ref-22334

---
reach out to those who are receptive, emphasizing benefits in common.” — location: [2503](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2503) ^ref-53937

---
That maneuver is taught as an on-the-spot response to bullying. Called a “put-up,” it tends to deflate the energy behind the put-downs and taunts bullies deploy. — location: [2550](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2550) ^ref-56147

---
“We each have a responsibility,” the Dalai Lama tells us. “If you make the attempt now, then within this century, a more peaceful world can be achieved.” — location: [2595](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2595) ^ref-50625

---
Both concentration and the ability to squelch destructive impulses activate the same neural circuitry, which is also crucial for the readiness to learn. — location: [2657](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2657) ^ref-16942

---
We need to take the time to develop peace of mind, he advised. This emotional shift will not come overnight. “So we need some training.” — location: [2671](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2671) ^ref-29276

---
It’s up to you whether you lead a happy life, whether you make a positive contribution for the well-being of humanity. — location: [2677](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2677) ^ref-45340

---
a happy life is not dependent on being wealthy, or even having a good family. — location: [2679](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2679) ^ref-64948

---
today’s education does not bring inner peace or moral principles. — location: [2682](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2682) ^ref-35088

---
extending our biological instinct for compassion toward our loved ones outward, toward everyone. — location: [2702](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2702) ^ref-43224

---
Social and Emotional Learning — location: [2714](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2714) ^ref-59441

---
become as automatic as washing their hands when they get dirty—an emotional hygiene as deeply embedded as the physical one. — location: [2781](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2781) ^ref-32821

---
“When they see their parents quarrel, they tell them, ‘Oh, no! This isn’t the right way—you should talk, not fight.’ — location: [2805](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2805) ^ref-4897

---
what seems impossible to you at this moment can change if you make the effort.” — location: [2863](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2863) ^ref-27801

---
The news skews our perceptions toward the fewer acts of negativity and away from the far more numerous acts of goodness in the world at large. — location: [2896](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2896) ^ref-52132

---
When things go well, we needn’t pay particular attention to them. — location: [2903](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2903) ^ref-19385

---
you can see why people who always hear the negative will develop the attitude that basic human nature is negative—and so the future of humanity is doomed. — location: [2908](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2908) ^ref-20409

---
insisted, clarifying, “but at the same time you should also show the possibility to change or overcome these things. — location: [2914](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2914) ^ref-7609

---
Bury the body in a cloth without a coffin, and plant a tree to grow there. — location: [2948](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2948) ^ref-23134

---
“The world is a dangerous place to live; not because of the people who are evil, but because of the people who don’t do anything about it.” — location: [2985](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2985) ^ref-49649

---
“Society” is but the aggregate of us all. — location: [2999](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=2999) ^ref-63522

---
It fits his view that we should plant the seeds of a better world, even if we will not see the fruits. — location: [3034](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=3034) ^ref-38561

---
Even if it seems hopeless now, never give up. Offer a positive vision, with enthusiasm and joy, and an optimistic outlook.” — location: [3044](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=3044) ^ref-9663

---
But we all should act now, even if we will never see the fruition of our efforts.” — location: [3047](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=3047) ^ref-63542

---
Act now, and persist. Act even if the cause seems hopeless—and never give up. — location: [3068](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=3068) ^ref-49262

---
“If you want to change the world,” he says, first try to improve—change within yourself. — location: [3078](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=3078) ^ref-40545

---
The father of a family in Brooklyn, for instance, told me that he and his wife are looking for a place—say, a soup kitchen—where they can bring their young daughters regularly to help those in need. We want, he said, “to show them that charity should be part of life,” and to teach them the “wise-selfish” truth that “altruism feels good.” — location: [3179](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=3179) ^ref-47758

---
That’s why there is a website that mirrors this book, inviting anyone who feels aligned with the Dalai Lama’s vision to join together and name the good they do or aim for and, en masse, show the world the promise of a force for good: www.joinaforce4good.org. — location: [3184](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00NRQRWRS&location=3184) ^ref-13036

---
