docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
    bookId: '38957'
    title: >-
        An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power: Your Action Handbook to Learn the
        Science, Find Your Voice, and Help Solve the Climate Crisis
    author: Al Gore
    asin: B01MZASPKA
    lastAnnotatedDate: '2021-09-10'
    bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/816spoSEPzL._SY160.jpg'
    highlightsCount: 21
---

# An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power

## Metadata

-   Author: [Al Gore](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B01MZASPKA
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01MZASPKA
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA)

## Highlights

it is first necessary to come to grips with the unprecedented threat to humanity posed by our continued reliance on fossil fuels, our unsustainable industrial transportation, agriculture, forestry, and ocean management practices—and our habit of short-term thinking that blinds too many of us to the unimaginable damage we are causing. — location: [52](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=52) ^ref-23642

---

Despair, after all, is simply another form of denial, and can serve to paralyze the will we need to fight our way out of this crisis. — location: [74](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=74) ^ref-61929

---

Many state, provincial, regional, and local governments are already moving faster than national governments. — location: [201](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=201) ^ref-61110

---

Because many governments in the world—especially the United States government in 2017—are still controlled by fossil fuel interests, the growing citizen activist movement pushing for more rapid change is actually the most important movement in world history. — location: [207](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=207) ^ref-52153

---

"You know how you know climate change is real? When the hottest year on record is whatever year it currently is." — location: [323](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=323) ^ref-57601

---

More than 90 percent of all the heat energy trapped by man-made global warming pollution goes into the ocean. — location: [339](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=339) ^ref-50062

---

When ocean temperatures go up, the water vapor rising from the ocean increases significantly. Moreover, warmer air can hold a lot more water vapor. For each additional 1°C (1.8°F) of temperature, the atmosphere's capacity to hold water vapor increases by 7 percent. There is already 4 percent more water vapor over the oceans than there was just 30 years ago. — location: [454](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=454) ^ref-43454

---

people, crops, energy production, industry, and animals—requires more water when the temperature goes up. — location: [622](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=622) ^ref-38958

---

In an age when any news source can be branded "fake," providing the public with raw, objective data can be a subversive act. — location: [755](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=755) ^ref-4794

---

The truth can set us free, and once free, we must act. — location: [1212](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1212) ^ref-60111

---

Visit online voting scorecards such as Scorecard.LCV.org or GovTrack.us. — location: [1240](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1240) ^ref-29755

---

Most of the time the staffer will simply be recording the number of calls they receive on a given issue, so there is no need to speak at length and — location: [1254](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1254) ^ref-20778

---

you shouldn't feel pressured to carry on a conversation. — location: [1255](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1255) ^ref-8419

---

replies and mentions on their Twitter accounts, — location: [1263](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1263) ^ref-4349

---

WRITE A LETTER TO YOUR ELECTED OFFICIALS — location: [1269](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1269) ^ref-10019

---

Speak at a Town Hall Meeting or Forum — location: [1271](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1271) ^ref-47763

---

municipal vehicles be transitioned to electric vehicles or hybrids. — location: [1283](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1283) ^ref-25998

---

municipal buildings transition to solar or wind power. — location: [1285](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1285) ^ref-20660

---

encourage your city, business, or university to commit to using 100 percent renewable electricity. — location: [1287](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1287) ^ref-38023

---

a price on carbon that reflects the true costs we all pay for global warming pollution and incentivizes the transition to a clean energy economy. — location: [1290](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1290) ^ref-35318

---

climate task force, — location: [1296](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1296) ^ref-10772

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

#toreview past location 1296.
#incomplete

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-22 12:29:56
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md
docs/Books/Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People.md
docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams-1684772856009.md
docs/Books/Humble Pi.md
docs/Books/Quiet.md
docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md
docs/Books/Stealing Your Life.md
docs/Books/The Authorities.md
docs/Books/The Hard Thing About Hard Things.md
docs/Books/The Premonition.md
docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md
docs/Books/The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fck.md
docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md

docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '38957'
  title: >-
    An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power: Your Action Handbook to Learn the
    Science, Find Your Voice, and Help Solve the Climate Crisis
  author: Al Gore
  asin: B01MZASPKA
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-18'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/816spoSEPzL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 20
---

# An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power

## Metadata

-   Author: [Al Gore](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B01MZASPKA
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01MZASPKA
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA)

## Highlights

it is first necessary to come to grips with the unprecedented threat to humanity posed by our continued reliance on fossil fuels, our unsustainable industrial transportation, agriculture, forestry, and ocean management practices—and our habit of short-term thinking that blinds too many of us to the unimaginable damage we are causing. — location: [52](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=52) ^ref-23642

---

Despair, after all, is simply another form of denial, and can serve to paralyze the will we need to fight our way out of this crisis. — location: [74](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=74) ^ref-61929

---

Many state, provincial, regional, and local governments are already moving faster than national governments. — location: [201](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=201) ^ref-61110

---

Because many governments in the world—especially the United States government in 2017—are still controlled by fossil fuel interests, the growing citizen activist movement pushing for more rapid change is actually the most important movement in world history. — location: [207](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=207) ^ref-52153

---

"You know how you know climate change is real? When the hottest year on record is whatever year it currently is." — location: [323](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=323) ^ref-57601

---

More than 90 percent of all the heat energy trapped by man-made global warming pollution goes into the ocean. — location: [339](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=339) ^ref-50062

---

When ocean temperatures go up, the water vapor rising from the ocean increases significantly. Moreover, warmer air can hold a lot more water vapor. For each additional 1°C (1.8°F) of temperature, the atmosphere's capacity to hold water vapor increases by 7 percent. There is already 4 percent more water vapor over the oceans than there was just 30 years ago. — location: [454](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=454) ^ref-43454

---

people, crops, energy production, industry, and animals—requires more water when the temperature goes up. — location: [622](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=622) ^ref-38958

---

In an age when any news source can be branded "fake," providing the public with raw, objective data can be a subversive act. — location: [755](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=755) ^ref-4794

---

The truth can set us free, and once free, we must act. — location: [1212](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1212) ^ref-60111

---

Visit online voting scorecards such as Scorecard.LCV.org or GovTrack.us. — location: [1240](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1240) ^ref-29755

---

Most of the time the staffer will simply be recording the number of calls they receive on a given issue, so there is no need to speak at length and — location: [1254](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1254) ^ref-20778

---

you shouldn't feel pressured to carry on a conversation. — location: [1255](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1255) ^ref-8419

---

replies and mentions on their Twitter accounts, — location: [1263](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1263) ^ref-4349

---

Most of the time the staffer will simply be recording the number of calls they receive on a given issue, so there is no need to speak at length and you shouldn’t feel pressured to carry on a conversation. — location: [1254](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1254) ^ref-36910

---
Members of Congress and other elected officials also pay careful attention to replies and mentions on their Twitter accounts, especially when they come from people who clearly identify themselves as constituents. — location: [1262](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1262) ^ref-31822

---
WRITE A LETTER TO YOUR ELECTED OFFICIALS — location: [1269](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1269) ^ref-10019

---

Speak at a Town Hall Meeting or Forum — location: [1271](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1271) ^ref-47763

---

municipal vehicles be transitioned to electric vehicles or hybrids. — location: [1283](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1283) ^ref-25998

---

municipal buildings transition to solar or wind power. — location: [1285](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1285) ^ref-20660

---

encourage your city, business, or university to commit to using 100 percent renewable electricity. — location: [1287](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1287) ^ref-38023

---

a price on carbon that reflects the true costs we all pay for global warming pollution and incentivizes the transition to a clean energy economy. — location: [1290](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1290) ^ref-35318

---

climate task force, — location: [1296](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1296) ^ref-10772

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

#toreview past location 1296.
#incomplete 

If your city doesn’t have a climate task force, maybe it’s time to form one! — location: [1296](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01MZASPKA&location=1296) ^ref-1937

---
