docs/Books/An Officer and a Spy.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '21030'
  title: 'An Officer and a Spy: A novel'
  author: Robert Harris
  asin: B00EBRU05I
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2022-12-31'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81Wn7J+bqOL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 3
---
# An Officer and a Spy
## Metadata
* Author: [Robert Harris](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B00EBRU05I
* ISBN: 0385349580
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00EBRU05I
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00EBRU05I)

## Highlights
In some private corner of our minds, from the moment we first become conscious of mortality, are we not all waiting secretly for our parents’ deaths? — location: [1918](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00EBRU05I&location=1918) ^ref-54738

---
“There are occasions when losing is a victory, so long as there is a fight.” — location: [5729](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00EBRU05I&location=5729) ^ref-22943

---
Just because the government lies about some things, it doesn’t mean they lie about everything. — location: [6523](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00EBRU05I&location=6523) ^ref-8645

---

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-16 19:06:53
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/10-Minute Stretching.md
docs/Books/13 Things Mentally Strong People Dont Do.md
docs/Books/50 Years in the OR.md
docs/Books/A Case of Need.md
docs/Books/A Force for Good.md
docs/Books/Against All Enemies.md
docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md
docs/Books/An Officer and a Spy.md
docs/Books/Appointment With Death.md
docs/Books/Are You Smart Enough to Work at Google.md
docs/Books/At Home.md
docs/Books/Atomic Habits.md
docs/Books/Born a Crime.md
docs/Books/Building Machine Learning Systems with Python.md
docs/Books/By the Pricking of My Thumbs.md
docs/Books/Closed Casket.md
docs/Books/Command Authority.md
docs/Books/Learn Cocoa on the Mac.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Full Force and Effect.md

docs/Books/An Officer and a Spy.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '21030'
  title: 'An Officer and a Spy
  author: Robert Harris
  asin: B00EBRU05I
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2022-12-31'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81Wn7J+bqOL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 3
date: 2023-05-16 19:06
last_modified_at: 2023-05-16 19:06
---
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
# An Officer and a Spy
## Metadata
* Author: [Robert Harris](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B00EBRU05I
* ISBN: 0385349580
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00EBRU05I
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00EBRU05I)

## Highlights
In some private corner of our minds, from the moment we first become conscious of mortality, are we not all waiting secretly for our parents’ deaths? — location: [1918](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00EBRU05I&location=1918) ^ref-54738

---
“There are occasions when losing is a victory, so long as there is a fight.” — location: [5729](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00EBRU05I&location=5729) ^ref-22943

---
Just because the government lies about some things, it doesn’t mean they lie about everything. — location: [6523](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00EBRU05I&location=6523) ^ref-8645

---
