docs/Books/Born a Crime.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '33858'
  title: 'Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood'
  author: Trevor Noah
  asin: B01DHWACVY
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2020-06-08'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/91mePFAgywL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 29
---
# Born a Crime
## Metadata
* Author: [Trevor Noah](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B01DHWACVY
* ISBN: 0399590447
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01DHWACVY
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY)

## Highlights
The genius of apartheid was convincing people who were the overwhelming majority to turn on each other. Apart hate, is what it was. You separate people into groups and make them hate one another so you can run them all. — location: [73](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=73) ^ref-56127

---
It’s a command and a threat, all at once. — location: [174](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=174) ^ref-29379

---
Water was if the woman wanted to teach her man a lesson. Oil meant she wanted to end it. — location: [532](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=532) ^ref-19017

---
In America the dream is to make it out of the ghetto. In Soweto, because there was no leaving the ghetto, the dream was to transform the ghetto. — location: [582](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=582) ^ref-19151

---
made me realize that language, even more than color, defines who you are to people. — location: [799](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=799) ^ref-39938

---
Racism exists. People are getting hurt, and just because it’s not happening to you doesn’t mean it’s not happening. — location: [814](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=814) ^ref-2670

---
Life is full of pain. Let the pain sharpen you, but don’t hold on to it. Don’t be bitter.” — location: [943](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=943) ^ref-43393

---
We didn’t eat chickens. We obliterated them. Our family was an archaeologist’s nightmare. We left no bones behind. — location: [1034](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1034) ^ref-31218

---
We tell people to follow their dreams, but you can only dream of what you can imagine, and, depending on where you come from, your imagination can be quite limited. — location: [1055](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1055) ^ref-54630

---
The thing that always amazed me about her life was that no one showed her. No one chose her. She did it on her own. She found her way through sheer force of will. — location: [1058](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1058) ^ref-46494

---
every child is born the center of its own universe, incapable of understanding the world beyond its own wants and needs, — location: [1089](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1089) ^ref-63827

---
She taught me to challenge authority and question the system. The only way it backfired on her was that I constantly challenged and questioned her. — location: [1258](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1258) ^ref-62599

---
What was ironic to me was that white people had spent years seeing video of black people being beaten to death by other white people, but this one video of a black man kicking a cat, that’s what sent them over the edge. — location: [1314](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1314) ^ref-20325

---
You do not own the thing that you love. — location: [1404](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1404) ^ref-62000

---
Clearly they had never heard of the Swiss. — location: [1450](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1450) ^ref-52067

---
The whole issue of Santa Claus is a rather contentious one when it comes to African Christmas, a matter of pride. When an African dad buys his kid a present, the last thing he’s going to do is give some fat white man credit for it. — location: [1470](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1470) ^ref-7836

---
Being chosen is the greatest gift you can give to another human being. — location: [1529](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1529) ^ref-5278

---
Relationships are built in the silences. — location: [1532](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1532) ^ref-36904

---
People are willing to accept you if they see you as an outsider trying to assimilate into their world. But when they see you as a fellow tribe member attempting to disavow the tribe, that is something they will never forgive. — location: [1581](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1581) ^ref-59149

---
the family had to make a decision. Do they give up their white status to go and live as colored people in a colored area? Or would they split up, the mother taking the colored child to live in the ghetto while the father stayed white to make a living to support them? — location: [1604](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1604) ^ref-10636

---
Apartheid said that the only reason colored people couldn’t have first-class status was because black people might use coloredness to sneak past the gates to enjoy the benefits of whiteness. — location: [1610](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1610) ^ref-36527

---
That’s what apartheid did: It convinced every group that it was because of the other race that they didn’t get into the club. — location: [1612](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1612) ^ref-14810

---
the truth is that none of you were ever getting into that club. — location: [1615](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1615) ^ref-53524

---
The first thing I learned about having money was that it gives you choices. People don’t want to be rich. They want to be able to choose. The richer you are, the more choices you have. That is the freedom of money. — location: [2431](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2431) ^ref-30817

---
People love to say, “Give a man a fish, and he’ll eat for a day. Teach a man to fish, and he’ll eat for a lifetime.” What they don’t say is, “And it would be nice if you gave him a fishing rod.” That’s the part of the analogy that’s missing. — location: [2464](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2464) ^ref-29596

---
Holocaust victims count because Hitler counted them. — location: [2550](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2550) ^ref-20219

---
The hood made me realize that crime succeeds because crime does the one thing the government doesn’t do: crime cares. Crime is grassroots. Crime looks for the young kids who need support and a lifting hand. Crime offers internship programs and summer jobs and opportunities for advancement. Crime gets involved in the community. Crime doesn’t discriminate. — location: [2722](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2722) ^ref-4693

---
Because by making the choice to leave, you’re insulting the place that raised you and made you and never turned you away. And that place fights you back. — location: [2891](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2891) ^ref-52534

---
When you make the effort to speak someone else’s language, even if it’s just basic phrases here and there, you are saying to them, “I understand that you have a culture and identity that exists beyond me. I see you as a human being.” — location: [3136](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=3136) ^ref-25288

---
## Non-Kindle Data
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-18 12:37:28
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/A Force for Good.md
docs/Books/Born a Crime.md
docs/Books/Odds On.md
docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md

docs/Books/Born a Crime.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '33858'
  title: 'Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood'
  author: Trevor Noah
  asin: B01DHWACVY
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-18'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/91mePFAgywL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 29
---
# Born a Crime
## Metadata
* Author: [Trevor Noah](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B01DHWACVY
* ISBN: 0399590447
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01DHWACVY
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY)

## Highlights
The genius of apartheid was convincing people who were the overwhelming majority to turn on each other. Apart hate, is what it was. You separate people into groups and make them hate one another so you can run them all. — location: [73](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=73) ^ref-56127

---
It’s a command and a threat, all at once. — location: [174](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=174) ^ref-29379

---
Water was if the woman wanted to teach her man a lesson. Oil meant she wanted to end it. — location: [532](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=532) ^ref-19017

---
Sun’qhela is a phrase with many shades of meaning. It says “don’t undermine me,” “don’t underestimate me,” and “just try me.” It’s a command and a threat, all at once. — location: [173](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=173) ^ref-11536

---
In Soweto you were always hearing about men getting doused with pots of boiling water—often a woman’s only recourse. And men were lucky if it was water. Some women used hot cooking oil. Water was if the woman wanted to teach her man a lesson. Oil meant she wanted to end it. — location: [531](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=531) ^ref-15609

---
In America the dream is to make it out of the ghetto. In Soweto, because there was no leaving the ghetto, the dream was to transform the ghetto. — location: [582](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=582) ^ref-19151

---
made me realize that language, even more than color, defines who you are to people. — location: [799](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=799) ^ref-39938

---
They were ready to do me violent harm, until they felt we were part of the same tribe, and then we were cool. That, and so many other smaller incidents in my life, made me realize that language, even more than color, defines who you are to people. — location: [798](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=798) ^ref-8543

---
Racism exists. People are getting hurt, and just because it’s not happening to you doesn’t mean it’s not happening. — location: [814](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=814) ^ref-2670

---
Life is full of pain. Let the pain sharpen you, but don’t hold on to it. Don’t be bitter.” — location: [943](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=943) ^ref-43393

---
We didn’t eat chickens. We obliterated them. Our family was an archaeologist’s nightmare. We left no bones behind. — location: [1034](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1034) ^ref-31218

---
We tell people to follow their dreams, but you can only dream of what you can imagine, and, depending on where you come from, your imagination can be quite limited. — location: [1055](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1055) ^ref-54630

---
The thing that always amazed me about her life was that no one showed her. No one chose her. She did it on her own. She found her way through sheer force of will. — location: [1058](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1058) ^ref-46494

---
every child is born the center of its own universe, incapable of understanding the world beyond its own wants and needs, — location: [1089](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1089) ^ref-63827

---
She taught me to challenge authority and question the system. The only way it backfired on her was that I constantly challenged and questioned her. — location: [1258](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1258) ^ref-62599

---
What was ironic to me was that white people had spent years seeing video of black people being beaten to death by other white people, but this one video of a black man kicking a cat, that’s what sent them over the edge. — location: [1314](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1314) ^ref-20325

---
You do not own the thing that you love. — location: [1404](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1404) ^ref-62000

---
Clearly they had never heard of the Swiss. — location: [1450](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1450) ^ref-52067

---
The restaurant closed only because a few people in the neighborhood took it upon themselves to complain. They filed petitions, and the government started looking for ways to shut my dad down. At first the inspectors came and tried to get him on cleanliness and health-code violations. Clearly they had never heard of the Swiss. That failed dismally. Then they decided to go after him by imposing additional and arbitrary restrictions. — location: [1448](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1448) ^ref-63335

---
The whole issue of Santa Claus is a rather contentious one when it comes to African Christmas, a matter of pride. When an African dad buys his kid a present, the last thing he’s going to do is give some fat white man credit for it. — location: [1470](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1470) ^ref-7836

---
Being chosen is the greatest gift you can give to another human being. — location: [1529](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1529) ^ref-5278

---
Relationships are built in the silences. — location: [1532](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1532) ^ref-36904

---
People are willing to accept you if they see you as an outsider trying to assimilate into their world. But when they see you as a fellow tribe member attempting to disavow the tribe, that is something they will never forgive. — location: [1581](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1581) ^ref-59149

---
the family had to make a decision. Do they give up their white status to go and live as colored people in a colored area? Or would they split up, the mother taking the colored child to live in the ghetto while the father stayed white to make a living to support them? — location: [1604](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1604) ^ref-10636

---
Apartheid said that the only reason colored people couldn’t have first-class status was because black people might use coloredness to sneak past the gates to enjoy the benefits of whiteness. — location: [1610](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1610) ^ref-36527

---
That’s what apartheid did: It convinced every group that it was because of the other race that they didn’t get into the club. — location: [1612](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1612) ^ref-14810

---
the truth is that none of you were ever getting into that club. — location: [1615](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=1615) ^ref-53524

---
The first thing I learned about having money was that it gives you choices. People don’t want to be rich. They want to be able to choose. The richer you are, the more choices you have. That is the freedom of money. — location: [2431](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2431) ^ref-30817

---
People love to say, “Give a man a fish, and he’ll eat for a day. Teach a man to fish, and he’ll eat for a lifetime.” What they don’t say is, “And it would be nice if you gave him a fishing rod.” That’s the part of the analogy that’s missing. — location: [2464](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2464) ^ref-29596

---
Holocaust victims count because Hitler counted them. — location: [2550](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2550) ^ref-20219

---
I often meet people in the West who insist that the Holocaust was the worst atrocity in human history, without question. Yes, it was horrific. But I often wonder, with African atrocities like in the Congo, how horrific were they? The thing Africans don’t have that Jewish people do have is documentation. The Nazis kept meticulous records, took pictures, made films. And that’s really what it comes down to. Holocaust victims count because Hitler counted them. Six million people killed. We can all look at that number and rightly be horrified. But when you read through the history of atrocities against Africans, there are no numbers, only guesses. It’s harder to be horrified by a guess. When Portugal and Belgium were plundering Angola and the Congo, they weren’t counting the black people they slaughtered. How many black people died harvesting rubber in the Congo? In the gold and diamond mines of the Transvaal? So in Europe and America, yes, Hitler is the Greatest Madman in History. In Africa he’s just another strongman from the history books. — location: [2547](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2547) ^ref-56040

---
The hood made me realize that crime succeeds because crime does the one thing the government doesn’t do: crime cares. Crime is grassroots. Crime looks for the young kids who need support and a lifting hand. Crime offers internship programs and summer jobs and opportunities for advancement. Crime gets involved in the community. Crime doesn’t discriminate. — location: [2722](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2722) ^ref-4693

---
Because by making the choice to leave, you’re insulting the place that raised you and made you and never turned you away. And that place fights you back. — location: [2891](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=2891) ^ref-52534

---
When you make the effort to speak someone else’s language, even if it’s just basic phrases here and there, you are saying to them, “I understand that you have a culture and identity that exists beyond me. I see you as a human being.” — location: [3136](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DHWACVY&location=3136) ^ref-25288

---
## Non-Kindle Data
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
