---
tags:
  - book
title: Disclosure
author: Michael Crichton
total_page: null
isbn: 0345539001
date: null
last_modified_at: null
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '26435'
  title: 'Disclosure: A Novel'
  author: Michael Crichton
  asin: B000FC1HPK
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2019-03-27'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/41-enThMTRL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 7
---

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

# Disclosure

## Highlights
“Unfortunately, the law has nothing to do with justice, Mr. Sanders,” she said. “It’s merely a method for dispute resolution.” — location: [2273](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000FC1HPK&location=2273) ^ref-1891

---
Not in a contemporary climate where men were assumed to be guilty of anything they were accused of. — location: [3298](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000FC1HPK&location=3298) ^ref-63126

---
they all changed their behavior. There were new rules now, and every man knew them: Don’t smile at a child on the street, unless you’re with your wife. Don’t ever touch a strange child. Don’t ever be alone with someone else’s child, even for a moment. If a child invites you into his or her room, don’t go unless another adult, preferably a woman, is also present. At a party, don’t let a little girl sit on your lap. If she tries, gently push her aside. If you ever have occasion to see a naked boy or girl, look quickly away. Better yet, leave. And it was prudent to be careful around your own children, too, because if your marriage went sour, your wife might accuse you. And then your past conduct would be reviewed in an unfavorable light: “Well, he was such an affectionate father—perhaps a little too affectionate.” Or, “He spent so much time with the kids. He was always hanging around the house …” This was a world of regulations and penalties entirely unknown to women. If Susan saw a child crying on the street, she picked the kid up. She did it automatically, without thinking. Sanders would never dare. Not these days. And of course there were new rules for business, as well. Sanders knew men who would not take a business trip with a woman, who would not sit next to a female colleague on an airplane, who would not meet a woman for a drink in a bar unless someone else was also present. Sanders had always thought such caution was extreme, even paranoid. But now, he was not so sure. — location: [3301](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000FC1HPK&location=3301) ^ref-2547

---
But equality means no special breaks,” Sanders said. “Equality means treating people the same. — location: [3943](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000FC1HPK&location=3943) ^ref-52011

---
the fact is, harassment is a power issue. And power is neither male nor female. — location: [4059](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000FC1HPK&location=4059) ^ref-3947

---
an uncalculated, rather desperate human response to a situation which you entirely controlled. — location: [4214](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000FC1HPK&location=4214) ^ref-16834

---
A harassment claim is a weapon, Bob, and there are no good defenses against it. — location: [5961](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000FC1HPK&location=5961) ^ref-14611

---
