docs/Books/Getting Things Done.md, before:

---
tags:
  - book
  - Business & Economics
  - productivity
title: "Getting Things Done"
subtitle: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity
author: David Allen
authors: David Allen
category: Business & Economics
publisher: Penguin
publish_date: 2015-03-17
total_page: 352
isbn: 0698161866 {{isbn1#template-variable-definition}}
cover_url: http://books.google.com/books/content?id=7PoYBAAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&edge=curl&source=gbs_api
cover_small_url: 
isbn13: 9780698161863
isbn10: 0698161866
description:
link: https://play.google.com/store/books/details?id=7PoYBAAAQBAJ
preview_link: 
rating:
read:
status: undefined
# --- status: backlog, to read, reading, completed, stopped
date: 2023-06-02 09:13
last_modified_at: 2023-06-02 09:13
template-type: Book
template-version: "1.5"
# --- Find latest updates: https://github.com/groepl/Obsidian-Templates
---

### [[Books MOC]]

# Getting Things Done

by [[David Allen]]

## Summary

<!--The Book in 3 Sentences. No more than a couple paragraphs summarizing this BOOK -->

## Quotes

> Time is the quality of nature that keeps events from happening all at once. Lately it doesn't seem to be working.

– Anonymous

> Your ability to generate power is directly proportional to your ability to relax.

> You have to think about your stuff more than you realize but not as much as you're afraid you might.

> Think like a man of action, act like a man of thought.

– Henry Bergson

> Rule your mind or it will rule you.

– Horace

> It does not take much strength to do things, but it requires a great deal of strength to decide what to do.

– Elbert Hubbard

> Everything should be mad

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-06-02 09:23:18
Affected files:
docs/Books/Getting Things Done.md

docs/Books/Getting Things Done.md, after:

---
tags:
  - book
  - Business & Economics
  - productivity
title: "Getting Things Done"
subtitle: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity
author: David Allen
authors: David Allen
category: Business & Economics
publisher: Penguin
publish_date: 2015-03-17
total_page: 352
isbn: 0698161866 {{isbn1#template-variable-definition}}
cover_url: http://books.google.com/books/content?id=7PoYBAAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&edge=curl&source=gbs_api
cover_small_url: 
isbn13: 9780698161863
isbn10: 0698161866
description:
link: https://play.google.com/store/books/details?id=7PoYBAAAQBAJ
preview_link: 
rating:
read:
status: undefined
# --- status: backlog, to read, reading, completed, stopped
date: 2023-06-02 09:13
last_modified_at: 2023-06-02 09:13
template-type: Book
template-version: "1.5"
# --- Find latest updates: https://github.com/groepl/Obsidian-Templates
---

### [[Books MOC]]

# Getting Things Done

by [[David Allen]]

## Summary

<!--The Book in 3 Sentences. No more than a couple paragraphs summarizing this BOOK -->

## Quotes

> Time is the quality of nature that keeps events from happening all at once. Lately it doesn't seem to be working.

– Anonymous

> Your ability to generate power is directly proportional to your ability to relax.

> You have to think about your stuff more than you realize but not as much as you're afraid you might.

> Think like a man of action, act like a man of thought.

– Henry Bergson

> Rule your mind or it will rule you.

– Horace

> It does not take much strength to do things, but it requires a great deal of strength to decide what to do.

– Elbert Hubbard

> Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler.

– Albert Einstein

> It's a good habit, as soon as you conclude an action on your calendar (a meeting, a phone call, the final draft of a report), to check and see what else remains to be done.

> The Six-Level Model for Reviewing Your Own Work:
> 
> * 50,000+ feet: Life
> * 40,000 feet: Three- to five-year vision
> * 30,000 feet: One- to two-year goals
> * 20,000 feet: Areas of responsibility
> 	* Work
> 		* Strategic planning
> 		* Staff development
> 		* ...
> 	* Personal
> 		* Health
> 		* Family
> 		* Finances
> 		* Spirituality
> 		* Recreation
> * 10,000 feet: Current projects
> * Runway: Current actions
