docs/Books/Grit The Power of Passion and Perseverance.md, before:

---
tags:
    - book
    - non-fiction
    - passion
    - self-help
    - todo
title: 'Grit'
subtitle: 'The Power of Passion and Perseverance'
author: Angela Duckworth
link: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1443442313/
rating:
date:
read:
status: undefined
---

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

# Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance

by [[Angela Duckworth]]

## Summary

<!-- No more than a couple paragraphs summarizing this BOOK -->

{{description}}

## Table of Contents

## <!--Link to table of contents (TOC) -->

## Notes

## <!-- The main content of my thoughts really -->

## Quotes

> The most important were the first time in their lives,
> Mike and the other recruits were being asked, on an hourly basis, to do things they couldn't yet do.

> What almost struck Mike had was that rising to the occasion had almost nothing to do with talent.
> Those who dropped out of training rarely from lack of ability.
> Rather, what mattered, Mike said, was a "never give up" attitude.

> Why were the highly accomplished so dogged in their pursuits?
> For most, there was no realistic expectation of ever catching up to their ambitions.
> In their own eyes, they were never good enough. They were the opposite of complacent.
> And yet, in a very real sense, they were satisfied being un-satisified.
> Each was chasing something of unparalleled interest and importance,
> and it was the chase - as much as the capture - that was gratifying.
> Even if some of the things they had to do were boring, frustrating, or even painful,
> they wouldn't dream of giving up.
> Their passion was enduring.

> In sum, no matter the domain, the highly successful had a kind of ferocious determination that played out in two ways.
> First, these exemplars were unusually resilient and hardworking.
> Second, they knew in a very, very deep way what it was they wanted.
> They not only had determination, they had direction.

> It was this combination of passion and perseverance that made high achievers special. In a word, they had grit.

> What this theory says is that when you consider individuals in identical circumstances,
> what each achieves depends on just two things, talent and effort.
> Talent - how fast we improve in skill - absolutely matters.
> But effort factors into the calculations twice, not once. Effort builds skill.
> At the very same time, effort makes skill productive.

> In very gritty people, most mid-level and low-level goals are,
> in some way or another, related to that ultimate goal.
> In contrast, a lack of grit can come from having less coherent goal structures.

> What I mean by passion is not just that you have something you care about.
> What I mean is that you care about that same ultimate goal in an abiding, loyal, steady way. You are not capricious.
> Each day, you wake up thinking of the questions you fell asleep thinking about.
> You are, in a sense, pointing in the same direction,
> ever eager to take even the smallest step forward, than to take a step to the side,
> toward some other destination.
> At the extreme, one might call your focus obsessive.
> Most of your actions derive their significance from their allegiance to your ultimate concern, your life philosophy.
> You have your priorities in order.

> Buffett turns to his faithful pilot and says that he must have dreams
> greater than flying Buffett around to where he needs to go. The pilot confesses that, yes, he does.
> And then Buffett takes him through three steps. First, you write down a list of twenty-five career goals.
> Second, you do some soul-searching and circle the five highest-priority goals. Just five.
> Third, you take a good hard look at the twenty goals you didn't circle. These you avoid at all costs.
> They're what distract you: they eat away time and energy, taking your eye from the goals that matter more.

> Each of the basic requirements of deliberate practice is unremarkable:
>
> -   A clearly defined stretch goal
> -   Full concentration and effort
> -   Immediate and informative feedback
> -   Repetition with reflection and refinement

> The idea of purpose is the idea that what we do matters to people other than ourselves.

> David Yeager recommends reflecting on how the work you're already doing can make a positive contribution to society.

> Amy Wrzesniewski recommends thinking about how, in small but meaningful ways,
> you can change your current work to enhance its connection to your core values.

> Bill Damon recommends finding inspiration in a purposeful role model.

> Author and activist James Baldwin once put it this way:
> "Children have never been very good at listening to their elders, but they have never failed to imitate them."

> "I worry a lot about kids in poverty," Steve said.
> "They're getting a lot of helplessness experiences. They're not getting enough mastery experiences.
> They're not learning: I can do this. I can succeed in that.
> My speculation is that those earlier experiences can have really endur ing effects.
> You need to learn that there's a contingency between your actions and what happens to you:
> 'If I do something, then something will happen.'"

> When I hear that, I sometimes interrupt with a précis of Steve Maiers research showing that,
> in fact, finding a way out of the suffering is what does the strengthening.

> Endure to the end, Steve.

> My mission is to utilize my passion for computer science and machine learning to benefit society at large,
> while serving as an example of success that will shape the future of our society.

> In homage to the earlier work of Seligman and Maier on learned helplessness,
> where the inability to escape punishment led animals to give up on a second challenging task,
> Bob dubbed this phenomenon learned industriousness.
> His major conclusion was simply that the assocation between working hard and reward can be learned.
> Bob will go further and say that without directly experiencing the connection between effort and reward,
> animals, whether they're rats or people, default to laziness.
> Calorie-burning effort is, after all, something evolution has shaped us to avoid whenever possible.

> The Hard Thing Rule. It has three parts.

> The first is that everyone - including Mom and Dad - has to do a hard thing.
> A hard thing is something that requires daily deliberate practice.

> The second part of the Hard Thing Rule \[is\] You can quit.
> But you can't quit until the season is over, the tuition payment is up,
> or some other "natural" stopping point has arrived.
> You must, at least for the interval to which you've committed yourself, finish whatever you begin.
> In other words, you can't quit on a day when your teacher yells at you, or you lose a race,
> or you have to miss a sleepover because of a recital the next morning.
> You can't quit on a bad day.

> And, finally, the Hard Thing Rule states that you get to pick your hard thing.
> Nobody picks it for you because, after all,
> it would make no sense to do a hard thing you're not even vaguely interested in.

> And here is how Jamie translates the poetry of Roosevelt into the prose of a JPMorgan Chase manual,
> titled How We Do Business:
>
> -   "Have a fierce resolve in everything you do."
> -   "Demonstrate determination, resiliency, and tenacity."
> -   "Do not let temporary setbacks become permanent excuses."
> -   And, finally, "Use mistakes and problems as opportunities to get better - not reasons to quit.

> The first core value - We don't whine - and its corresponding quote,
> courtesy of playwright George Bernard Shaw:
> "The true joy in life is to be a force of fortune
> instead of a leverish, selfish little clod of ailments and grievances
> complaining that the world will not devore itself to making you happy."

> Let me close with a few final thoughts.
> The first is that you can grow your grit. I see two ways to do so.

> On your own, you can grow your grit "from the inside out":
>
> -   You can cultivate your interests.
> -   You can develop a habit of daily challenge-exceeding-skill practice.
> -   You can connect your work to a purpose beyond yourself.
> -   And you can learn to hope when all seems lost.

> You can also grow your grit "from the outside in."
> Parents, coaches, teachers, bosses, mentors, friends -
> developing your personal grit depends critically on other people.

---

## Questions

## <!-- What remains for you to consider? -->

## References

<!-- Links to pages not referenced in the content -->

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-10 08:12:31
Affected files:
.obsidian/app.json
.obsidian/appearance.json
.obsidian/community-plugins.json
.obsidian/core-plugins-migration.json
.obsidian/core-plugins.json
.obsidian/graph.json
.obsidian/hotkeys.json
.obsidian/plugins/dataview/main.js
.obsidian/plugins/dataview/styles.css
.obsidian/plugins/emoji-shortcodes/main.js
.obsidian/plugins/emoji-shortcodes/styles.css
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-book-search-plugin/main.js
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-book-search-plugin/styles.css
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-git/data.json
.obsidian/plugins/tag-wrangler/main.js
.obsidian/plugins/tag-wrangler/styles.css
.obsidian/plugins/update-time-on-edit/main.js
.obsidian/plugins/update-time-on-edit/styles.css
.obsidian/workspace-mobile.json
.pre-commit-config.yaml
.yamllint.yml
README.md
docs/*nix.md
docs/10 people mistakes leaders make.md
docs/7 top strategies for managing employee performance.md
docs/Books/Destructive Reasoning.md
docs/Books/Firefight.md
docs/Books/Grit The Power of Passion and Perseverance.md
docs/Books/Oath of Office.md
docs/Books/The Meritocracy Trap.md
docs/Books/Weapons of Math Destruction.md
docs/Command line tools MOC.md
docs/Cybersecurity.md
docs/Data science MOC.md
docs/GitHub.md
docs/Linters.md
docs/Management MOC.md
docs/Newsletters MOC.md
docs/Obsidian configuration.md
docs/Operating systems MOC.md
docs/Podcasts MOC.md
docs/Programming MOC.md
docs/Python.md
docs/Talks MOC.md
docs/Terminal recording.md
docs/Untitled.md
docs/aws-cli.md
docs/cspell.md
docs/curl.md
docs/cygwin.md
docs/dvc.md
docs/gcloud and gsutil.md
docs/git.md
docs/macOS.md
docs/make.md
docs/mysql.md
docs/pandas.md
docs/poetry.md
docs/prettier.md
docs/psql.md
docs/pyenv.md
docs/regex.md
docs/sphinx.md
docs/sql.md
docs/ssh.md
docs/tr.md
docs/windows.md
project-words.txt
templates/long blog.md
templates/table.md

docs/Books/Grit The Power of Passion and Perseverance.md, after:

---
tags:
  - book
  - non-fiction
  - passion
  - self-help
  - todo
title: "Grit"
subtitle: "The Power of Passion and Perseverance"
author: Angela Duckworth
link: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1443442313/
rating:
date:
read:
status: undefined
date: 2023-05-10 08:10
last_modified_at: 2023-05-10 08:10
---

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

# Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance

by [[Angela Duckworth]]

## Summary

<!-- No more than a couple paragraphs summarizing this BOOK -->

{{description}}

## Table of Contents

## <!--Link to table of contents (TOC) -->

## Notes

## <!-- The main content of my thoughts really -->

## Quotes

> The most important were the first time in their lives,
> Mike and the other recruits were being asked, on an hourly basis, to do things they couldn't yet do.

> What almost struck Mike had was that rising to the occasion had almost nothing to do with talent.
> Those who dropped out of training rarely from lack of ability.
> Rather, what mattered, Mike said, was a "never give up" attitude.

> Why were the highly accomplished so dogged in their pursuits?
> For most, there was no realistic expectation of ever catching up to their ambitions.
> In their own eyes, they were never good enough. They were the opposite of complacent.
> And yet, in a very real sense, they were satisfied being un-satisified.
> Each was chasing something of unparalleled interest and importance,
> and it was the chase - as much as the capture - that was gratifying.
> Even if some of the things they had to do were boring, frustrating, or even painful,
> they wouldn't dream of giving up.
> Their passion was enduring.

> In sum, no matter the domain, the highly successful had a kind of ferocious determination that played out in two ways.
> First, these exemplars were unusually resilient and hardworking.
> Second, they knew in a very, very deep way what it was they wanted.
> They not only had determination, they had direction.

> It was this combination of passion and perseverance that made high achievers special. In a word, they had grit.

> What this theory says is that when you consider individuals in identical circumstances,
> what each achieves depends on just two things, talent and effort.
> Talent - how fast we improve in skill - absolutely matters.
> But effort factors into the calculations twice, not once. Effort builds skill.
> At the very same time, effort makes skill productive.

> In very gritty people, most mid-level and low-level goals are,
> in some way or another, related to that ultimate goal.
> In contrast, a lack of grit can come from having less coherent goal structures.

> What I mean by passion is not just that you have something you care about.
> What I mean is that you care about that same ultimate goal in an abiding, loyal, steady way. You are not capricious.
> Each day, you wake up thinking of the questions you fell asleep thinking about.
> You are, in a sense, pointing in the same direction,
> ever eager to take even the smallest step forward, than to take a step to the side,
> toward some other destination.
> At the extreme, one might call your focus obsessive.
> Most of your actions derive their significance from their allegiance to your ultimate concern, your life philosophy.
> You have your priorities in order.

> Buffett turns to his faithful pilot and says that he must have dreams
> greater than flying Buffett around to where he needs to go. The pilot confesses that, yes, he does.
> And then Buffett takes him through three steps. First, you write down a list of twenty-five career goals.
> Second, you do some soul-searching and circle the five highest-priority goals. Just five.
> Third, you take a good hard look at the twenty goals you didn't circle. These you avoid at all costs.
> They're what distract you: they eat away time and energy, taking your eye from the goals that matter more.

> Each of the basic requirements of deliberate practice is unremarkable:
>
> - A clearly defined stretch goal
> - Full concentration and effort
> - Immediate and informative feedback
> - Repetition with reflection and refinement

> The idea of purpose is the idea that what we do matters to people other than ourselves.

> David Yeager recommends reflecting on how the work you're already doing can make a positive contribution to society.

> Amy Wrzesniewski recommends thinking about how, in small but meaningful ways,
> you can change your current work to enhance its connection to your core values.

> Bill Damon recommends finding inspiration in a purposeful role model.

> Author and activist James Baldwin once put it this way:
> "Children have never been very good at listening to their elders, but they have never failed to imitate them."

> "I worry a lot about kids in poverty," Steve said.
> "They're getting a lot of helplessness experiences. They're not getting enough mastery experiences.
> They're not learning: I can do this. I can succeed in that.
> My speculation is that those earlier experiences can have really endur ing effects.
> You need to learn that there's a contingency between your actions and what happens to you:
> 'If I do something, then something will happen.'"

> When I hear that, I sometimes interrupt with a précis of Steve Maiers research showing that,
> in fact, finding a way out of the suffering is what does the strengthening.

> Endure to the end, Steve.

> My mission is to utilize my passion for computer science and machine learning to benefit society at large,
> while serving as an example of success that will shape the future of our society.

> In homage to the earlier work of Seligman and Maier on learned helplessness,
> where the inability to escape punishment led animals to give up on a second challenging task,
> Bob dubbed this phenomenon learned industriousness.
> His major conclusion was simply that the assocation between working hard and reward can be learned.
> Bob will go further and say that without directly experiencing the connection between effort and reward,
> animals, whether they're rats or people, default to laziness.
> Calorie-burning effort is, after all, something evolution has shaped us to avoid whenever possible.

> The Hard Thing Rule. It has three parts.

> The first is that everyone - including Mom and Dad - has to do a hard thing.
> A hard thing is something that requires daily deliberate practice.

> The second part of the Hard Thing Rule \[is\] You can quit.
> But you can't quit until the season is over, the tuition payment is up,
> or some other "natural" stopping point has arrived.
> You must, at least for the interval to which you've committed yourself, finish whatever you begin.
> In other words, you can't quit on a day when your teacher yells at you, or you lose a race,
> or you have to miss a sleepover because of a recital the next morning.
> You can't quit on a bad day.

> And, finally, the Hard Thing Rule states that you get to pick your hard thing.
> Nobody picks it for you because, after all,
> it would make no sense to do a hard thing you're not even vaguely interested in.

> And here is how Jamie translates the poetry of Roosevelt into the prose of a JPMorgan Chase manual,
> titled How We Do Business:
>
> - "Have a fierce resolve in everything you do."
> - "Demonstrate determination, resiliency, and tenacity."
> - "Do not let temporary setbacks become permanent excuses."
> - And, finally, "Use mistakes and problems as opportunities to get better - not reasons to quit.

> The first core value - We don't whine - and its corresponding quote,
> courtesy of playwright George Bernard Shaw:
> "The true joy in life is to be a force of fortune
> instead of a leverish, selfish little clod of ailments and grievances
> complaining that the world will not devore itself to making you happy."

> Let me close with a few final thoughts.
> The first is that you can grow your grit. I see two ways to do so.

> On your own, you can grow your grit "from the inside out":
>
> - You can cultivate your interests.
> - You can develop a habit of daily challenge-exceeding-skill practice.
> - You can connect your work to a purpose beyond yourself.
> - And you can learn to hope when all seems lost.

> You can also grow your grit "from the outside in."
> Parents, coaches, teachers, bosses, mentors, friends -
> developing your personal grit depends critically on other people.

---

## Questions

## <!-- What remains for you to consider? -->

## References

<!-- Links to pages not referenced in the content -->
