docs/Books/Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
    bookId: '28905'
    title: >-
        "Guns Don't Kill People, People Kill People": And Other Myths About Guns and
        Gun Control
    author: Dennis A. Henigan
    asin: B01BRFKMDQ
    lastAnnotatedDate: '2021-12-04'
    bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/814vpUnjsxL._SY160.jpg'
    highlightsCount: 63
---

# "Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People"

## Metadata

-   Author: [Dennis A. Henigan](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B01BRFKMDQ
-   ISBN: 0807088846
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01BRFKMDQ
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ)

## Highlights

"this is all about getting people to stop thinking." — location: [247](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=247) ^ref-28837

---

The issue is not whether the gun industry is "more regulated" than other industries. The issue is whether the regulations we have are appropriate to the nature and extent of the risk. — location: [406](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=406) ^ref-28757

---

seldom do criminals undertake to commit drive-by knifings. — location: [430](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=430) ^ref-42470

---

it affords the opportunity to inflict multiple wounds, quickly and efficiently, on the same target. — location: [431](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=431) ^ref-59701

---

it can inflict wounds, quickly and efficiently, on multiple targets. — location: [435](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=435) ^ref-53089

---

a gunshot wound is more likely to be lethal than a comparable knife wound. — location: [466](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=466) ^ref-18456

---

Guns don't kill people. They enable people to kill people. — location: [474](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=474) ^ref-44778

---

America's crime is simply more deadly. — location: [521](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=521) ^ref-33997

---

Other Western countries have our crime problem. No country has our lethal-crime problem. — location: [534](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=534) ^ref-61225

---

"People are seldom killed while cleaning their knives." — location: [562](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=562) ^ref-21470

---

When assessing relative risks, they must be compared with other weapons. When such a comparison is made, it is striking that guns are far more likely to kill, even when their users have no intention of killing. — location: [604](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=604) ^ref-57392

---

the tendency of the media (particularly television) to oversimplify issues and to portray most every — location: [752](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=752) ^ref-55043

---

issue (whether it be guns, abortion, immigration, or others) in the starkest possible terms as a clash between polar-opposite positions. — location: [753](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=753) ^ref-37999

---

They can be useful to prosecutors in obtaining longer sentences in plea bargains, particularly since they may be easier to prove than the more serious, violent offense. — location: [790](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=790) ^ref-58790

---

Should we repeal our laws against murder because murderers don't obey them? — location: [803](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=803) ^ref-24033

---

The law's success would depend not on the willingness of criminals to obey the law, but on the willingness of gun dealers to adhere to new legal requirements that curb a primary avenue by which criminals get their guns. — location: [918](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=918) ^ref-63623

---

The fast-flowing stream of guns from dealers to the illegal market tells a different story. So does the successful operation of the Brady Act and the Virginia one-gun-a-month law. — location: [931](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=931) ^ref-54218

---

The point is that gun owners should be accountable for what happens to their guns. — location: [995](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=995) ^ref-41065

---

Plainly not, even according to some of the nation's strongest gun control critics. — location: [1084](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1084) ^ref-61541

---

Nevertheless, all sides in the gun control debate seem to agree that machine gun crime is not a serious problem after decades of tight controls, even though the value of these guns to criminals is obvious. — location: [1092](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1092) ^ref-62062

---

The apparent success of the NFA suggests that the solution to weaknesses in our gun laws is stronger gun laws. — location: [1093](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1093) ^ref-7190

---

there should at least be a presumption that a strong, well-administered licensing and registration system can be as effective for other firearms as it has been for machine guns. — location: [1113](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1113) ^ref-49526

---

One obvious complication is that most gun violence has nothing to do with criminals. Most gunshot deaths and injuries in America are inflicted with guns owned by, in the NRA's parlance, "law-abiding citizens." These are, by definition, the people most likely to obey the law. — location: [1120](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1120) ^ref-55001

---

However, suicide often is an impulsive act, motivated more by a passing crisis than by severe mental illness. — location: [1135](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1135) ^ref-39514

---

"Americans in small towns and rural areas are just as likely to die from gunfire as Americans in major cities," says Charles Branas of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. "The difference is in who does the shooting." — location: [1277](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1277) ^ref-38314

---

The arbitrariness of any particular speed limit does not render irrational the task of setting a speed limit and should not mean that we must tolerate the deaths and injuries that would result from the absence of any speed limit. — location: [1446](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1446) ^ref-64503

---

Instead, gun registration, like auto registration, may simply be regarded by the public as an appropriate regulatory and law-enforcement tool applied to a dangerous product, with no tendency to generate support for banning the product itself. — location: [1542](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1542) ^ref-2954

---

In other words, allowing the slippery-slope argument to dictate gun policy has a cost, and it likely is a cost in death and serious injury from gunfire. — location: [1553](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1553) ^ref-35278

---

When a gun control proposal is met with the charge that it is the first step toward confiscation of all guns, the frequent response is to point out how modest the proposal really is, emphasizing its limitations and allowing its opponents to then raise questions about its likely effectiveness. This, in turn, feeds the public's skepticism about whether gun laws really make a difference. — location: [1562](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1562) ^ref-12491

---

In no other area of policymaking would we allow such rank speculation to defeat proposals that have concrete and demonstrable benefits. — location: [1574](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1574) ^ref-49585

---

Even if the gun control agenda included a ban on guns for law-abiding citizens, it would be an agenda that is now, in Justice Scalia's words, "off the table." — location: [1594](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1594) ^ref-51827

---

it is worth observing the paradox that the two greatest gun-rights victories in our constitutional history may, in the long run, end up strengthening the effort to pass sensible gun laws by undercutting one of the core gun-lobby arguments against those laws. — location: [1615](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1615) ^ref-40081

---

the most plausible explanation for this effect is that guns are extremely valuable loot for burglars.30 — location: [1746](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1746) ^ref-35199

---

The fact is that when our society really wants to ensure that a particular group of people, place, or event is safe and secure, we do everything we can to keep the guns out. — location: [1781](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1781) ^ref-8860

---

even the gun industry itself understands that when complete safety is the goal, the guns must go. — location: [1790](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1790) ^ref-29968

---

The study suggests that many guns kept for self-defense are simply not used for that purpose, even when the need arises. — location: [1930](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1930) ^ref-33126

---

For every time a gun in the home was used in a self-defense or legally justifiable shooting, there were four unintentional shootings, seven criminal assaults or homicides, and eleven attempted or completed suicides. — location: [1936](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1936) ^ref-58640

---

The best available evidence, therefore, tells us that a gun in the home (1) does not reduce the risk of homicide or burglary; (2) can be used for self-defense but is rarely used for that purpose, even in cases of home invasion; and (3) is far more likely to victimize those who live in the home, or their acquaintances, than to be used to shoot intruders. — location: [1965](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1965) ^ref-16430

---

research resources devoted to gun violence are minuscule compared to other public-health issues like tobacco use, cancer, or HIV. — location: [1978](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1978) ^ref-43015

---

the NRA would not condemn the murder of federal agents by persons suspected of violating federal gun laws. — location: [2220](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2220) ^ref-32380

---

When he committed the worst terrorist act up to that point in United States history, McVeigh was — location: [2251](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2251) ^ref-46354

---

acting out the hate-filled anti-ATF rhetoric of the NRA. — location: [2252](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2252) ^ref-7771

---

Barely two years after savaging ATF for enforcing federal gun laws, the NRA launched its new campaign to savage the Clinton administration for not enforcing federal gun laws. — location: [2262](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2262) ^ref-60585

---

when gun owners defy laws the NRA has opposed, far from expressing outrage at the law breakers, it characterizes the illegality as "civil disobedience." — location: [2291](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2291) ^ref-61859

---

The NRA is not a proponent of respect for the law, only for the laws it supports. — location: [2300](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2300) ^ref-30065

---

The NRA's argument really amounts to the proposition that the solution to criminal gun violence is to increase federal prosecution and punishment of criminal offenders instead of enacting federal laws to prevent access to guns by criminals in the first place. — location: [2459](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2459) ^ref-11517

---

What if our nation had applied this logic to the issue of airline security? — location: [2460](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2460) ^ref-51884

---

One solution could have been to simply impose harsher punishments on hijackers of American airplanes. An alternative was both to punish hijackers severely and require the airlines to do security checks on passengers to prevent them from bringing weapons aboard airplanes. The NRA's logic would have supported a policy of increasing penalties instead of implementing new preventive policies. — location: [2462](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2462) ^ref-50881

---

To the extent our preventive policies have failed (as in the 9/11 disaster), our response has been to tighten them, not abandon them in favor of a "punishment only" response. — location: [2467](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2467) ^ref-47390

---

The NRA opposes these enforcement-enhancing new laws, even if they help us enforce the law against those who have actually used guns in violent crime. — location: [2480](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2480) ^ref-27780

---

A magazine-disconnect safety, for example, would cost the gun maker less than thirty cents to install but would block discharge of a round if the magazine is out of the gun. Some pistols have them; most do not. — location: [2584](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2584) ^ref-33678

---

Manufacturers can be liable even though human errors contributed to the injury—the error of the child in misusing the lighter to start a fire and the error of the adult in leaving the lighter accessible to the child. — location: [2594](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2594) ^ref-19798

---

gun manufacturers should also be held to a duty to design their products to prevent such misuse. — location: [2601](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2601) ^ref-58084

---

according to the best available scientific evidence, bringing a gun into the home will expose that young family to far more danger than not having a gun. — location: [2672](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2672) ^ref-62727

---

the incentives for safer products originate from two sources: regulatory bodies created by legislatures and the threat of damages awarded by courts. — location: [2687](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2687) ^ref-35033

---

This was firepower of the kind "associated with military or police, not civilian shooting requirements," — location: [2737](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2737) ^ref-676

---

courts have held that the owner of a vehicle who left the keys in the ignition in a high-crime area may be liable for injuries inflicted by a thief who recklessly caused an accident. — location: [2763](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2763) ^ref-57075

---

For the "gun rights" partisan, the Second Amendment is the trump card in the gun debate, the argument of last resort. — location: [3113](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3113) ^ref-22253

---

If its intent was to guarantee a right to possess guns for private purposes like self-defense and hunting, its words seem oddly chosen: — location: [3118](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3118) ^ref-34096

---

our nation has allowed myths to replace reason and evidence in making gun policy. — location: [3472](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3472) ^ref-42761

---

The gun lobby's mythology has lethal consequences. — location: [3476](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3476) ^ref-30401

---

the "cold, dead hands" that should move us are those of the innocent victims of gun violence, not the fantasy of self-styled patriots — location: [3484](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3484) ^ref-56616

---

who risk little in promoting their extreme and dangerous agenda. — location: [3485](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3485) ^ref-30754

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-22 12:29:56
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md
docs/Books/Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People.md
docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams-1684772856009.md
docs/Books/Humble Pi.md
docs/Books/Quiet.md
docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md
docs/Books/Stealing Your Life.md
docs/Books/The Authorities.md
docs/Books/The Hard Thing About Hard Things.md
docs/Books/The Premonition.md
docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md
docs/Books/The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fck.md
docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md

docs/Books/Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '28905'
  title: >-
    "Guns Don't Kill People, People Kill People": And Other Myths About Guns and
    Gun Control
  author: Dennis A. Henigan
  asin: B01BRFKMDQ
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-18'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/814vpUnjsxL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 61
---

# "Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People"

## Metadata

-   Author: [Dennis A. Henigan](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B01BRFKMDQ
-   ISBN: 0807088846
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01BRFKMDQ
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ)

## Highlights

"this is all about getting people to stop thinking." — location: [247](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=247) ^ref-28837

---

The issue is not whether the gun industry is "more regulated" than other industries. The issue is whether the regulations we have are appropriate to the nature and extent of the risk. — location: [406](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=406) ^ref-28757

---

seldom do criminals undertake to commit drive-by knifings. — location: [430](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=430) ^ref-42470

---

it affords the opportunity to inflict multiple wounds, quickly and efficiently, on the same target. — location: [431](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=431) ^ref-59701

---

it can inflict wounds, quickly and efficiently, on multiple targets. — location: [435](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=435) ^ref-53089

---

a gunshot wound is more likely to be lethal than a comparable knife wound. — location: [466](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=466) ^ref-18456

---

Guns don't kill people. They enable people to kill people. — location: [474](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=474) ^ref-44778

---

America's crime is simply more deadly. — location: [521](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=521) ^ref-33997

---

Other Western countries have our crime problem. No country has our lethal-crime problem. — location: [534](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=534) ^ref-61225

---

"People are seldom killed while cleaning their knives." — location: [562](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=562) ^ref-21470

---

When assessing relative risks, they must be compared with other weapons. When such a comparison is made, it is striking that guns are far more likely to kill, even when their users have no intention of killing. — location: [604](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=604) ^ref-57392

---

the tendency of the media (particularly television) to oversimplify issues and to portray most every — location: [752](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=752) ^ref-55043

---

issue (whether it be guns, abortion, immigration, or others) in the starkest possible terms as a clash between polar-opposite positions. — location: [753](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=753) ^ref-37999

---

the tendency of the media (particularly television) to oversimplify issues and to portray most every issue (whether it be guns, abortion, immigration, or others) in the starkest possible terms as a clash between polar-opposite positions. — location: [752](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=752) ^ref-14994

---
They can be useful to prosecutors in obtaining longer sentences in plea bargains, particularly since they may be easier to prove than the more serious, violent offense. — location: [790](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=790) ^ref-58790

---

Should we repeal our laws against murder because murderers don't obey them? — location: [803](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=803) ^ref-24033

---

The law's success would depend not on the willingness of criminals to obey the law, but on the willingness of gun dealers to adhere to new legal requirements that curb a primary avenue by which criminals get their guns. — location: [918](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=918) ^ref-63623

---

The fast-flowing stream of guns from dealers to the illegal market tells a different story. So does the successful operation of the Brady Act and the Virginia one-gun-a-month law. — location: [931](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=931) ^ref-54218

---

The point is that gun owners should be accountable for what happens to their guns. — location: [995](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=995) ^ref-41065

---

Plainly not, even according to some of the nation's strongest gun control critics. — location: [1084](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1084) ^ref-61541

---

Nevertheless, all sides in the gun control debate seem to agree that machine gun crime is not a serious problem after decades of tight controls, even though the value of these guns to criminals is obvious. — location: [1092](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1092) ^ref-62062

---

The apparent success of the NFA suggests that the solution to weaknesses in our gun laws is stronger gun laws. — location: [1093](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1093) ^ref-7190

---

there should at least be a presumption that a strong, well-administered licensing and registration system can be as effective for other firearms as it has been for machine guns. — location: [1113](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1113) ^ref-49526

---

One obvious complication is that most gun violence has nothing to do with criminals. Most gunshot deaths and injuries in America are inflicted with guns owned by, in the NRA's parlance, "law-abiding citizens." These are, by definition, the people most likely to obey the law. — location: [1120](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1120) ^ref-55001

---

However, suicide often is an impulsive act, motivated more by a passing crisis than by severe mental illness. — location: [1135](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1135) ^ref-39514

---

"Americans in small towns and rural areas are just as likely to die from gunfire as Americans in major cities," says Charles Branas of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. "The difference is in who does the shooting." — location: [1277](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1277) ^ref-38314

---

The arbitrariness of any particular speed limit does not render irrational the task of setting a speed limit and should not mean that we must tolerate the deaths and injuries that would result from the absence of any speed limit. — location: [1446](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1446) ^ref-64503

---

Instead, gun registration, like auto registration, may simply be regarded by the public as an appropriate regulatory and law-enforcement tool applied to a dangerous product, with no tendency to generate support for banning the product itself. — location: [1542](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1542) ^ref-2954

---

In other words, allowing the slippery-slope argument to dictate gun policy has a cost, and it likely is a cost in death and serious injury from gunfire. — location: [1553](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1553) ^ref-35278

---

When a gun control proposal is met with the charge that it is the first step toward confiscation of all guns, the frequent response is to point out how modest the proposal really is, emphasizing its limitations and allowing its opponents to then raise questions about its likely effectiveness. This, in turn, feeds the public's skepticism about whether gun laws really make a difference. — location: [1562](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1562) ^ref-12491

---

In no other area of policymaking would we allow such rank speculation to defeat proposals that have concrete and demonstrable benefits. — location: [1574](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1574) ^ref-49585

---

Even if the gun control agenda included a ban on guns for law-abiding citizens, it would be an agenda that is now, in Justice Scalia's words, "off the table." — location: [1594](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1594) ^ref-51827

---

it is worth observing the paradox that the two greatest gun-rights victories in our constitutional history may, in the long run, end up strengthening the effort to pass sensible gun laws by undercutting one of the core gun-lobby arguments against those laws. — location: [1615](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1615) ^ref-40081

---

the most plausible explanation for this effect is that guns are extremely valuable loot for burglars.30 — location: [1746](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1746) ^ref-35199

---

The fact is that when our society really wants to ensure that a particular group of people, place, or event is safe and secure, we do everything we can to keep the guns out. — location: [1781](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1781) ^ref-8860

---

even the gun industry itself understands that when complete safety is the goal, the guns must go. — location: [1790](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1790) ^ref-29968

---

The study suggests that many guns kept for self-defense are simply not used for that purpose, even when the need arises. — location: [1930](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1930) ^ref-33126

---

For every time a gun in the home was used in a self-defense or legally justifiable shooting, there were four unintentional shootings, seven criminal assaults or homicides, and eleven attempted or completed suicides. — location: [1936](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1936) ^ref-58640

---

The best available evidence, therefore, tells us that a gun in the home (1) does not reduce the risk of homicide or burglary; (2) can be used for self-defense but is rarely used for that purpose, even in cases of home invasion; and (3) is far more likely to victimize those who live in the home, or their acquaintances, than to be used to shoot intruders. — location: [1965](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1965) ^ref-16430

---

research resources devoted to gun violence are minuscule compared to other public-health issues like tobacco use, cancer, or HIV. — location: [1978](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=1978) ^ref-43015

---

the NRA would not condemn the murder of federal agents by persons suspected of violating federal gun laws. — location: [2220](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2220) ^ref-32380

---

When he committed the worst terrorist act up to that point in United States history, McVeigh was — location: [2251](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2251) ^ref-46354

---

acting out the hate-filled anti-ATF rhetoric of the NRA. — location: [2252](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2252) ^ref-7771

---

When he committed the worst terrorist act up to that point in United States history, McVeigh was acting out the hate-filled anti-ATF rhetoric of the NRA. — location: [2251](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2251) ^ref-397

---
Barely two years after savaging ATF for enforcing federal gun laws, the NRA launched its new campaign to savage the Clinton administration for not enforcing federal gun laws. — location: [2262](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2262) ^ref-60585

---

when gun owners defy laws the NRA has opposed, far from expressing outrage at the law breakers, it characterizes the illegality as "civil disobedience." — location: [2291](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2291) ^ref-61859

---

The NRA is not a proponent of respect for the law, only for the laws it supports. — location: [2300](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2300) ^ref-30065

---

The NRA's argument really amounts to the proposition that the solution to criminal gun violence is to increase federal prosecution and punishment of criminal offenders instead of enacting federal laws to prevent access to guns by criminals in the first place. — location: [2459](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2459) ^ref-11517

---

What if our nation had applied this logic to the issue of airline security? — location: [2460](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2460) ^ref-51884

---

One solution could have been to simply impose harsher punishments on hijackers of American airplanes. An alternative was both to punish hijackers severely and require the airlines to do security checks on passengers to prevent them from bringing weapons aboard airplanes. The NRA's logic would have supported a policy of increasing penalties instead of implementing new preventive policies. — location: [2462](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2462) ^ref-50881

---

To the extent our preventive policies have failed (as in the 9/11 disaster), our response has been to tighten them, not abandon them in favor of a "punishment only" response. — location: [2467](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2467) ^ref-47390

---

The NRA opposes these enforcement-enhancing new laws, even if they help us enforce the law against those who have actually used guns in violent crime. — location: [2480](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2480) ^ref-27780

---

A magazine-disconnect safety, for example, would cost the gun maker less than thirty cents to install but would block discharge of a round if the magazine is out of the gun. Some pistols have them; most do not. — location: [2584](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2584) ^ref-33678

---

Manufacturers can be liable even though human errors contributed to the injury—the error of the child in misusing the lighter to start a fire and the error of the adult in leaving the lighter accessible to the child. — location: [2594](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2594) ^ref-19798

---

gun manufacturers should also be held to a duty to design their products to prevent such misuse. — location: [2601](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2601) ^ref-58084

---

according to the best available scientific evidence, bringing a gun into the home will expose that young family to far more danger than not having a gun. — location: [2672](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2672) ^ref-62727

---

the incentives for safer products originate from two sources: regulatory bodies created by legislatures and the threat of damages awarded by courts. — location: [2687](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2687) ^ref-35033

---

This was firepower of the kind "associated with military or police, not civilian shooting requirements," — location: [2737](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2737) ^ref-676

---

courts have held that the owner of a vehicle who left the keys in the ignition in a high-crime area may be liable for injuries inflicted by a thief who recklessly caused an accident. — location: [2763](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=2763) ^ref-57075

---

For the "gun rights" partisan, the Second Amendment is the trump card in the gun debate, the argument of last resort. — location: [3113](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3113) ^ref-22253

---

If its intent was to guarantee a right to possess guns for private purposes like self-defense and hunting, its words seem oddly chosen: — location: [3118](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3118) ^ref-34096

---

our nation has allowed myths to replace reason and evidence in making gun policy. — location: [3472](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3472) ^ref-42761

---

The gun lobby's mythology has lethal consequences. — location: [3476](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3476) ^ref-30401

---

the "cold, dead hands" that should move us are those of the innocent victims of gun violence, not the fantasy of self-styled patriots — location: [3484](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3484) ^ref-56616

---

who risk little in promoting their extreme and dangerous agenda. — location: [3485](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01BRFKMDQ&location=3485) ^ref-30754

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
