docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '5879'
  title: >-
    Highly Effective Teams: How to Transform Teams into Exceptionally Cohesive
    Professional Networks - a practical guide (Leadership Influence Project and
    Team Book 1)
  author: Michael Nir and Chen Nir
  asin: B00B4ZVPQI
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2021-02-15'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/71Z3pObG-fL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 2
---
# Highly Effective Teams
## Metadata
* Author: [Michael Nir and Chen Nir](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B00B4ZVPQI
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00B4ZVPQI
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00B4ZVPQI)

## Highlights
it depends on the commitment that each individual has to the team. — location: [189](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00B4ZVPQI&location=189) ^ref-3379

---
This elusive word refers to the increase in ability that happens when different elements work together. — location: [191](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00B4ZVPQI&location=191) ^ref-17130

---
## Non-Kindle Data
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-17 13:08:09
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/A Case of Need.md
docs/Books/Fixing Medical Prices.md
docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams.md
docs/Books/The Big Four.md
docs/Books/The Killings at Kingfisher Hill.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Point of Contact.md
docs/Books/When to Rob a Bank.md
docs/Books/Whistlestop.md

docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '5879'
  title: >-
    Highly Effective Teams: How to Transform Teams into Exceptionally Cohesive
    Professional Networks - a practical guide (Leadership Influence Project and
    Team Book 1)
  author: Michael Nir and Chen Nir
  asin: B00B4ZVPQI
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-17'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/71Z3pObG-fL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 1
---
# Highly Effective Teams
## Metadata
* Author: [Michael Nir and Chen Nir](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B00B4ZVPQI
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00B4ZVPQI
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00B4ZVPQI)

## Highlights
it depends on the commitment that each individual has to the team. — location: [189](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00B4ZVPQI&location=189) ^ref-3379

---
This elusive word refers to the increase in ability that happens when different elements work together. — location: [191](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00B4ZVPQI&location=191) ^ref-17130

---
## Non-Kindle Data
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)


Any team has the potential to become a high performance team. This ability isn’t so much dependent upon the expertise and ability of the individual members, although that does add to the team’s performance, but rather, it depends on the commitment that each individual has to the team. As with many other things, we find in the business world that attitude counts for as much as ability. We work together in teams to develop synergy. This elusive word refers to the increase in ability that happens when different elements work together. The ultimate result is greater than the sum of its parts. High performance teams capitalize on this, finding the way to achieve the greatest possible synergy in all their actions.  While the team leader is a critical part of this forming process, it doesn’t all depend upon the team leader. The types of people who are chosen for the team, their individual abilities, their personalities, their communication skills, their levels of commitment, and their ability to work with others all affect this process. If not dealt with properly, a single person with the wrong attitude can keep the team from becoming high performance. — location: [187](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00B4ZVPQI&location=187) ^ref-56883

---
