docs/Books/Outliers.md, before:

---
tags:
    - book
    - psychology
title: 'Outliers'
subtitle: The Story of Success
author: Malcolm Gladwell
authors: Malcolm Gladwell
category: Psychology
publisher: Penguin UK
publish_date: 2008-11-18
total_page: 320
isbn: 014190349X {{isbn1#template-variable-definition}}
cover_url: http://books.google.com/books/content?id=ialrgIT41OAC&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&edge=curl&source=gbs_api
cover_small_url:
isbn13: 9780141903491
isbn10: 014190349X
description:
link: https://books.google.com/books/about/Outliers.html?hl=&id=ialrgIT41OAC
preview_link:
rating:
read:
status: read
date: 2023-05-09, 21:31
last_modified_at: 2023-05-10 02:01:07
template-type: Book
template-version: '1.5'
---

### [[Books MOC]]

# Outliers

by [[Malcolm Gladwell]]

## Summary

<!--The Book in 3 Sentences. No more than a couple paragraphs summarizing this BOOK -->

## Quotes

> It's not enough to ask **what successful people are like**, in other words, it is only by asking **where they are from** that we can begin to unravel the logic behind who succeeds and who doesn't.

> Practice isn’t the thing you do once you’re good. It’s the thing you do that makes you good. 

> This wasn’t just a revolution. It was a revelation. 

## Notes

* The [Matthew effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_effect?wprov=sfti1)of accumulated advantage, Matthew principle, or Matthew effect is the tendency of individuals to accrue social or economic success in proportion to their initial level of popularity, friends, wealth, etc.
    * Example of kids sports with cutoffs. Kids with birthdates on either side of the cutoff have a difference of a year’s maturation. The older kid gets preferential treatment and this effect is compounded. Solution could be to have multiple leagues divided by birth month.
* The 10,000 hour rule.
    * It’s hard to get these hours in if you’re working a part time job. Really you need to get into a special program.

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-10 08:09:46
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-git/data.json
docs/Books/Outliers.md
docs/emacs.md

docs/Books/Outliers.md, after:

---
tags:
  - book
  - psychology
title: "Outliers"
subtitle: The Story of Success
author: Malcolm Gladwell
authors: Malcolm Gladwell
category: Psychology
publisher: Penguin UK
publish_date: 2008-11-18
total_page: 320
isbn: 014190349X {{isbn1#template-variable-definition}}
cover_url: http://books.google.com/books/content?id=ialrgIT41OAC&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&edge=curl&source=gbs_api
cover_small_url:
isbn13: 9780141903491
isbn10: 014190349X
description:
link: https://books.google.com/books/about/Outliers.html?hl=&id=ialrgIT41OAC
preview_link:
rating:
read:
status: read
date: 2023-05-09, 21:31
last_modified_at: 2023-05-10 02:01:07
template-type: Book
template-version: "1.5"
---

### [[Books MOC]]

# Outliers

by [[Malcolm Gladwell]]

## Summary

<!--The Book in 3 Sentences. No more than a couple paragraphs summarizing this BOOK -->

## Quotes

> It's not enough to ask **what successful people are like**, in other words, it is only by asking **where they are from** that we can begin to unravel the logic behind who succeeds and who doesn't.

> Practice isn't the thing you do once you're good. It's the thing you do that makes you good.

> This wasn't just a revolution. It was a revelation.

## Notes

- The [Matthew effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_effect?wprov=sfti1)of accumulated advantage, Matthew principle, or Matthew effect is the tendency of individuals to accrue social or economic success in proportion to their initial level of popularity, friends, wealth, etc.
  - Example of kids sports with cutoffs. Kids with birthdates on either side of the cutoff have a difference of a year's maturation. The older kid gets preferential treatment and this effect is compounded. Solution could be to have multiple leagues divided by birth month.
- The 10,000 hour rule.
  - It's hard to get these hours in if you're working a part time job. Really you need to get into a special program.
