docs/Books/Ready Player Two.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '44030'
  title: 'Ready Player Two: A Novel (Ready Player One Book 2)'
  author: Ernest Cline
  asin: B08BYWH6CS
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-04-13'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/91pxjSLgBkL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 4
---
# Ready Player Two
## Metadata
* Author: [Ernest Cline](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B08BYWH6CS
* ISBN: 1524761346
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08BYWH6CS
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS)

## Highlights
To win the videogame of life you just have to try to make the experience of being forced to play it as pleasant as possible, for yourself, and for all of the other players you encounter in your travels. Kira says that if everyone played the game to win, it’d be a lot more fun for everyone. — location: [437](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS&location=437) ^ref-48061

---
Human beings were never meant to participate in a worldwide social network comprised of billions of people. We were designed by evolution to be — location: [900](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS&location=900) ^ref-47696

---
hunter-gatherers, with the mental capacity to interact and socialize with the other members of our tribe—a tribe made up of a few hundred other people at most. Interacting with thousands or even millions of other people on a daily basis was way too much for our ape-descended melons to handle. That was why social media had been gradually driving the entire population of the world insane since it emerged back around the turn of the century. I was even beginning to wonder if the invention of a worldwide social network was actually the “Great Filter” that theoretically caused all technological civilizations to go extinct, instead of nuclear weapons or climate change. Maybe every time an intelligent species grew advanced enough to invent a global computer network, they would then develop some form of social media, which would immediately fill these beings with such an intense hatred for one another that they ended up wiping themselves out within four or five decades. — location: [901](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS&location=901) ^ref-44117

---
Two-Face was right. You either die a hero, or you live long enough to see yourself become the villain. — location: [1102](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS&location=1102) ^ref-57570

---
## Non-Kindle Data
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-17 12:28:09
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/Ready Player Two.md
docs/Books/Sea of Fire.md
docs/Books/Six Wakes.md
docs/Books/Steve Jobs.md
docs/Books/The Altreian Enigma.md
docs/Books/The Big Four.md
docs/Books/The Caves of Steel.md
docs/Books/The Currents of Space.md
docs/Books/The Gods Themselves.md
docs/Books/The Meridian Ascent.md
docs/Books/The Mystery of Three Quarters.md
docs/Books/The Naked Sun.md
docs/Books/The Robots of Dawn.md
docs/Books/The Stone Wolves.md

docs/Books/Ready Player Two.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '44030'
  title: 'Ready Player Two: A Novel (Ready Player One Book 2)'
  author: Ernest Cline
  asin: B08BYWH6CS
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-17'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/91pxjSLgBkL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 3
---
# Ready Player Two
## Metadata
* Author: [Ernest Cline](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B08BYWH6CS
* ISBN: 1524761346
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08BYWH6CS
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS)

## Highlights
To win the videogame of life you just have to try to make the experience of being forced to play it as pleasant as possible, for yourself, and for all of the other players you encounter in your travels. Kira says that if everyone played the game to win, it’d be a lot more fun for everyone. — location: [437](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS&location=437) ^ref-48061

---
Human beings were never meant to participate in a worldwide social network comprised of billions of people. We were designed by evolution to be — location: [900](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS&location=900) ^ref-47696

---
hunter-gatherers, with the mental capacity to interact and socialize with the other members of our tribe—a tribe made up of a few hundred other people at most. Interacting with thousands or even millions of other people on a daily basis was way too much for our ape-descended melons to handle. That was why social media had been gradually driving the entire population of the world insane since it emerged back around the turn of the century. I was even beginning to wonder if the invention of a worldwide social network was actually the “Great Filter” that theoretically caused all technological civilizations to go extinct, instead of nuclear weapons or climate change. Maybe every time an intelligent species grew advanced enough to invent a global computer network, they would then develop some form of social media, which would immediately fill these beings with such an intense hatred for one another that they ended up wiping themselves out within four or five decades. — location: [901](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS&location=901) ^ref-44117

---
Human beings were never meant to participate in a worldwide social network comprised of billions of people. We were designed by evolution to be hunter-gatherers, with the mental capacity to interact and socialize with the other members of our tribe—a tribe made up of a few hundred other people at most. Interacting with thousands or even millions of other people on a daily basis was way too much for our ape-descended melons to handle. That was why social media had been gradually driving the entire population of the world insane since it emerged back around the turn of the century. I was even beginning to wonder if the invention of a worldwide social network was actually the “Great Filter” that theoretically caused all technological civilizations to go extinct, instead of nuclear weapons or climate change. Maybe every time an intelligent species grew advanced enough to invent a global computer network, they would then develop some form of social media, which would immediately fill these beings with such an intense hatred for one another that they ended up wiping themselves out within four or five decades. — location: [900](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS&location=900) ^ref-10181

---
Two-Face was right. You either die a hero, or you live long enough to see yourself become the villain. — location: [1102](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08BYWH6CS&location=1102) ^ref-57570

---
## Non-Kindle Data
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
