docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
    bookId: '58779'
    title: 'Seeing Gender: An Illustrated Guide to Identity and Expression'
    author: Iris Gottlieb and Meredith Talusan
    asin: B07WXNW2ZX
    lastAnnotatedDate: '2022-08-05'
    bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81NY-Q4lH2L._SY160.jpg'
    highlightsCount: 28
---

# Seeing Gender

## Metadata

-   Author: [Iris Gottlieb and Meredith Talusan](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B07WXNW2ZX
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07WXNW2ZX
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX)

## Highlights

We get to break the rules of gender because they aren't real and are often harmful. — location: [91](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=91) ^ref-46248

---

This is not binary; some scientists argue that it is a continuum. — location: [114](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=114) ^ref-11017

---

It is not optional to call someone by their preferred pronoun—it is a required act of respect. — location: [144](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=144) ^ref-36466

---

Changes can be made suddenly and in major ways or slowly in small increments, and every iteration is valid and okay. — location: [246](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=246) ^ref-38255

---

By the way, humans evolved from apes, and most ape species are very sexually fluid . . . just sayin'. — location: [327](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=327) ^ref-23654

---

Total number of people: whose bodies differ from standard male or female = 1 in a 100 births who have visibly atypical genitalia = 1 in 1,500 births who receive surgery to "normalize" genital appearance = 1 or 2 in 2,000 births who don't have XX or XY chromosomes (such as a female with only one X or someone who has XXY chromosomes) = 1 in 1,666 births — location: [357](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=357) ^ref-42378

---

while the term hermaphrodite is outdated and offensive when used to refer to human beings (intersex is the appropriate — location: [366](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=366) ^ref-47684

---

Humans really like categories. — location: [464](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=464) ^ref-56953

---

This insight is important, as it is often harder to recognize our own privilege than to recognize the oppression of others. — location: [484](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=484) ^ref-25081

---

If we think about the root causes of sexism, misogyny, racism, classism, ageism, ableism, and all the -isms in this country, they are all about pretty much two things: othering and power. — location: [495](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=495) ^ref-6085

---

Power doesn't equal strength. — location: [737](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=737) ^ref-46038

---

While it materially serves men to be in power, it sets them up for emotional failure. — location: [788](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=788) ^ref-16687

---

Women, viewed as the "emotional gender," do that work constantly for men in the form of emotional labor: using emotional energy to manage their own feelings and those around them, which can be exhausting. It happens at home in the form of childcare, managing extended family obligations, and initiating dialogues about relationship issues. — location: [790](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=790) ^ref-6270

---

Give that extra thirty-three cents you make per hour to an organization — location: [811](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=811) ^ref-39879

---

chromosomes can vary in ways that don't affect someone's gender identity, external anatomy, secondary sexual characteristics, or presentation. — location: [842](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=842) ^ref-9029

---

White feminism is a broad term used to describe feminist movements that focus primarily on issues that affect White women but do not acknowledge White privilege. — location: [908](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=908) ^ref-17521

---

Today we still praise White women for their feminism far more easily and widely than non-White feminists, despite their consistent failure to include perspectives outside of themselves, their perpetuation of a false sense of gender equity including many TERF (Trans Exclusionary Radical Feminist) perspectives, or their adoption of outright racist or classist views. While the principles of White feminism do include valuable tenets of equity, they lack complexity and diverse perspectives. — location: [914](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=914) ^ref-52402

---

What it boils down to is, people who face systemic and daily oppression are far more likely to be actively working to dismantle — location: [925](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=925) ^ref-46341

---

"Black boys can be misperceived as older than they actually are and prematurely perceived as responsible for their actions during a developmental period where their peers receive the beneficial assumption of childlike innocence." — location: [1003](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1003) ^ref-24939

---

It's important to note that Black and brown boys do not commit more punishable offenses but are punished more frequently and harshly than their White classmates. — location: [1037](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1037) ^ref-3107

---

Men, people of color and queer, transgender, and elderly people are just as affected by eating disorders (if not more). — location: [1138](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1138) ^ref-34266

---

birth giver. — location: [1201](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1201) ^ref-29064

---

White men account for seven of ten suicides in the United States and men on the whole are three and a half times more likely to commit suicide than women. — location: [1253](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1253) ^ref-31767

---

40% of trans people have attempted suicide — location: [1266](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1266) ^ref-27436

---

labeling your bathrooms either "stalls" or "stalls and urinals," — location: [1304](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1304) ^ref-33753

---

THE RED UMBRELLA IS THE WORLDWIDE SYMBOL OF THE SEX WORKERS' RIGHTS MOVEMENT — location: [1472](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1472) ^ref-60806

---

To yield and not break, that is incredible strength." — location: [1604](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1604) ^ref-48637

---

I believe we could paint a better world if we learned how to see it from all perspectives, as many perspectives as we possibly could. Diversity is strength. Difference is a teacher. Fear difference, you learn nothing." — location: [1625](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1625) ^ref-18273

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-22 12:29:56
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md
docs/Books/Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People.md
docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams-1684772856009.md
docs/Books/Humble Pi.md
docs/Books/Quiet.md
docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md
docs/Books/Stealing Your Life.md
docs/Books/The Authorities.md
docs/Books/The Hard Thing About Hard Things.md
docs/Books/The Premonition.md
docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md
docs/Books/The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fck.md
docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md

docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '58779'
  title: 'Seeing Gender: An Illustrated Guide to Identity and Expression'
  author: Iris Gottlieb and Meredith Talusan
  asin: B07WXNW2ZX
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-18'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81NY-Q4lH2L._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 28
---

# Seeing Gender

## Metadata

-   Author: [Iris Gottlieb and Meredith Talusan](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B07WXNW2ZX
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07WXNW2ZX
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX)

## Highlights

We get to break the rules of gender because they aren't real and are often harmful. — location: [91](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=91) ^ref-46248

---

This is not binary; some scientists argue that it is a continuum. — location: [114](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=114) ^ref-11017

---

It is not optional to call someone by their preferred pronoun—it is a required act of respect. — location: [144](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=144) ^ref-36466

---

Changes can be made suddenly and in major ways or slowly in small increments, and every iteration is valid and okay. — location: [246](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=246) ^ref-38255

---

By the way, humans evolved from apes, and most ape species are very sexually fluid . . . just sayin'. — location: [327](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=327) ^ref-23654

---

Total number of people: whose bodies differ from standard male or female = 1 in a 100 births who have visibly atypical genitalia = 1 in 1,500 births who receive surgery to "normalize" genital appearance = 1 or 2 in 2,000 births who don't have XX or XY chromosomes (such as a female with only one X or someone who has XXY chromosomes) = 1 in 1,666 births — location: [357](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=357) ^ref-42378

---

while the term hermaphrodite is outdated and offensive when used to refer to human beings (intersex is the appropriate — location: [366](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=366) ^ref-47684

---

Humans really like categories. — location: [464](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=464) ^ref-56953

---

This insight is important, as it is often harder to recognize our own privilege than to recognize the oppression of others. — location: [484](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=484) ^ref-25081

---

If we think about the root causes of sexism, misogyny, racism, classism, ageism, ableism, and all the -isms in this country, they are all about pretty much two things: othering and power. — location: [495](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=495) ^ref-6085

---

Power doesn't equal strength. — location: [737](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=737) ^ref-46038

---

While it materially serves men to be in power, it sets them up for emotional failure. — location: [788](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=788) ^ref-16687

---

Women, viewed as the "emotional gender," do that work constantly for men in the form of emotional labor: using emotional energy to manage their own feelings and those around them, which can be exhausting. It happens at home in the form of childcare, managing extended family obligations, and initiating dialogues about relationship issues. — location: [790](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=790) ^ref-6270

---

Give that extra thirty-three cents you make per hour to an organization — location: [811](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=811) ^ref-39879

---

chromosomes can vary in ways that don't affect someone's gender identity, external anatomy, secondary sexual characteristics, or presentation. — location: [842](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=842) ^ref-9029

---

White feminism is a broad term used to describe feminist movements that focus primarily on issues that affect White women but do not acknowledge White privilege. — location: [908](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=908) ^ref-17521

---

Today we still praise White women for their feminism far more easily and widely than non-White feminists, despite their consistent failure to include perspectives outside of themselves, their perpetuation of a false sense of gender equity including many TERF (Trans Exclusionary Radical Feminist) perspectives, or their adoption of outright racist or classist views. While the principles of White feminism do include valuable tenets of equity, they lack complexity and diverse perspectives. — location: [914](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=914) ^ref-52402

---

What it boils down to is, people who face systemic and daily oppression are far more likely to be actively working to dismantle — location: [925](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=925) ^ref-46341

---

What it boils down to is, people who face systemic and daily oppression are far more likely to be actively working to dismantle it. — location: [925](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=925) ^ref-40241

---
"Black boys can be misperceived as older than they actually are and prematurely perceived as responsible for their actions during a developmental period where their peers receive the beneficial assumption of childlike innocence." — location: [1003](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1003) ^ref-24939

---

It's important to note that Black and brown boys do not commit more punishable offenses but are punished more frequently and harshly than their White classmates. — location: [1037](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1037) ^ref-3107

---

Men, people of color and queer, transgender, and elderly people are just as affected by eating disorders (if not more). — location: [1138](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1138) ^ref-34266

---

birth giver. — location: [1201](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1201) ^ref-29064

---

White men account for seven of ten suicides in the United States and men on the whole are three and a half times more likely to commit suicide than women. — location: [1253](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1253) ^ref-31767

---

40% of trans people have attempted suicide — location: [1266](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1266) ^ref-27436

---

labeling your bathrooms either "stalls" or "stalls and urinals," — location: [1304](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1304) ^ref-33753

---

THE RED UMBRELLA IS THE WORLDWIDE SYMBOL OF THE SEX WORKERS' RIGHTS MOVEMENT — location: [1472](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1472) ^ref-60806

---

To yield and not break, that is incredible strength." — location: [1604](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1604) ^ref-48637

---

I believe we could paint a better world if we learned how to see it from all perspectives, as many perspectives as we possibly could. Diversity is strength. Difference is a teacher. Fear difference, you learn nothing." — location: [1625](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07WXNW2ZX&location=1625) ^ref-18273

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
