docs/Books/Stealing Your Life.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
    bookId: '568'
    title: 'Stealing Your Life: The Ultimate Identity Theft Prevention Plan'
    author: Frank W. Abagnale
    asin: B000PDZF4S
    lastAnnotatedDate: '2022-11-02'
    bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81T27xQARKL._SY160.jpg'
    highlightsCount: 24
---

# Stealing Your Life

## Metadata

-   Author: [Frank W. Abagnale](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B000PDZF4S
-   ISBN: 0767925866
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B000PDZF4S
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S)

## Highlights

At the end of the year they take a 50 percent tax write-off, so the U.S. taxpayer picks up roughly half of their losses. — location: [226](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=226) ^ref-17777

---

In the end, you pay for everything. — location: [227](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=227) ^ref-43176

---

both you and I run a much higher risk of being victimized by an identity thief than by a mugger. — location: [258](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=258) ^ref-19341

---

In 1964 the U.S. prison system had a total of 68,000 inmates. — location: [265](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=265) ^ref-435

---

Today there are 2.1 million people behind bars. — location: [267](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=267) ^ref-54187

---

As a society, Americans are much more reactive than proactive. — location: [272](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=272) ^ref-35291

---

If you haven't been a victim of identity theft, it's only because the thieves haven't gotten around to you — location: [295](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=295) ^ref-6943

---

he may have decided not to give you more money to fritter away on indulgences. — location: [343](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=343) ^ref-47518

Not his business! If you earned a raise, you should get a raise!

---

Every time you share a piece of information about yourself, without obtaining a binding guarantee that it will not be sold or shared, — location: [465](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=465) ^ref-38712

---

No credit card bureau in the world, let alone the United States, keeps track of deaths. — location: [502](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=502) ^ref-22376

---

If I want your Social Security number, all I need is your name. I can go to the biggest online provider of Social Security numbers, DocuSearch.com. — location: [504](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=504) ^ref-15500

---

There are no laws in the United States—federal, state, county, or city—that prohibit the sale of Social Security numbers. — location: [507](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=507) ^ref-65299

---

Twenty-five years ago, if you did that to ten people, two would say yes and eight would report you to their boss or to the police. People had more ethics and character then. Now, if people think they can get away with something, it's okay. — location: [846](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=846) ^ref-64015

Seriously?!

---

demonstrable evidence that a drastic breakdown in values has poisoned modern society. — location: [1101](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1101) ^ref-21299

Nope!

---

the possibility that someone will go out and commit a crime in your name. — location: [1183](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1183) ^ref-43749

---

12 percent of identity theft victims were the unhappy recipients of a wrongful criminal record. — location: [1191](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1191) ^ref-39525

---

This false criminal record hounded him for years. He got fired from a job for lying about his criminal record. He was laid off from another job and was denied unemployment benefits because of his criminal record. His driver's license was suspended because of his criminal record. — location: [1195](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1195) ^ref-15598

---

The innocent victim had lost his driver's license not long before the crime, but he had reported it and had it replaced. Little good that did him. It cost him several thousand dollars to clear his name. — location: [1212](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1212) ^ref-18887

---

don't let your Social Security number be your student identification number. — location: [1485](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1485) ^ref-32444

---

ask them why they need it, what they plan to do with it, and how they'll keep it safe. It's your number, and so you have the right to know. — location: [1487](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1487) ^ref-54141

---

Contact the credit bureaus and have a "deceased" alert put on the person's reports. Have copies made of the relative's death certificate, and send one to every institution where the person had an account or a loan. This also goes for health insurers and the motor vehicle bureau. — location: [1766](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1766) ^ref-63203

---

To make sure it happens, and happens quickly, inform Social Security yourself, directly, with a copy of the death certificate. — location: [1772](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1772) ^ref-23658

---

Credit bureaus make more mistakes than any industry I've ever heard of. — location: [1872](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1872) ^ref-43021

---

it determined that an astounding 70 percent of them contained mistakes. — location: [1873](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1873) ^ref-62515

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-22 12:29:56
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md
docs/Books/Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People.md
docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams-1684772856009.md
docs/Books/Humble Pi.md
docs/Books/Quiet.md
docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md
docs/Books/Stealing Your Life.md
docs/Books/The Authorities.md
docs/Books/The Hard Thing About Hard Things.md
docs/Books/The Premonition.md
docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md
docs/Books/The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fck.md
docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md

docs/Books/Stealing Your Life.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '568'
  title: 'Stealing Your Life: The Ultimate Identity Theft Prevention Plan'
  author: Frank W. Abagnale
  asin: B000PDZF4S
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-18'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81T27xQARKL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 24
---

# Stealing Your Life

## Metadata

-   Author: [Frank W. Abagnale](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B000PDZF4S
-   ISBN: 0767925866
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B000PDZF4S
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S)

## Highlights

At the end of the year they take a 50 percent tax write-off, so the U.S. taxpayer picks up roughly half of their losses. — location: [226](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=226) ^ref-17777

---

In the end, you pay for everything. — location: [227](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=227) ^ref-43176

---

both you and I run a much higher risk of being victimized by an identity thief than by a mugger. — location: [258](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=258) ^ref-19341

---

In 1964 the U.S. prison system had a total of 68,000 inmates. — location: [265](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=265) ^ref-435

---

Today there are 2.1 million people behind bars. — location: [267](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=267) ^ref-54187

---

As a society, Americans are much more reactive than proactive. — location: [272](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=272) ^ref-35291

---

If you haven't been a victim of identity theft, it's only because the thieves haven't gotten around to you — location: [295](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=295) ^ref-6943

---

he may have decided not to give you more money to fritter away on indulgences. — location: [343](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=343) ^ref-47518

Not his business! If you earned a raise, you should get a raise!

---

If you ask for a raise and get turned down, you might think it’s because your boss is stingy or maybe your work performance isn’t as good as you feel it is. But maybe your boss ran a credit check and discovered overdrawn accounts that weren’t in fact yours. Assuming that you were a spendthrift, he may have decided not to give you more money to fritter away on indulgences. — location: [341](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=341) ^ref-45766

Not his business! If you earned a raise, you should get a raise!

---
Every time you share a piece of information about yourself, without obtaining a binding guarantee that it will not be sold or shared, — location: [465](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=465) ^ref-38712

---

No credit card bureau in the world, let alone the United States, keeps track of deaths. — location: [502](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=502) ^ref-22376

---

If I want your Social Security number, all I need is your name. I can go to the biggest online provider of Social Security numbers, DocuSearch.com. — location: [504](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=504) ^ref-15500

---

There are no laws in the United States—federal, state, county, or city—that prohibit the sale of Social Security numbers. — location: [507](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=507) ^ref-65299

---

Twenty-five years ago, if you did that to ten people, two would say yes and eight would report you to their boss or to the police. People had more ethics and character then. Now, if people think they can get away with something, it's okay. — location: [846](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=846) ^ref-64015

Seriously?!

---

demonstrable evidence that a drastic breakdown in values has poisoned modern society. — location: [1101](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1101) ^ref-21299

Nope!

---

the possibility that someone will go out and commit a crime in your name. — location: [1183](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1183) ^ref-43749

---

12 percent of identity theft victims were the unhappy recipients of a wrongful criminal record. — location: [1191](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1191) ^ref-39525

---

This false criminal record hounded him for years. He got fired from a job for lying about his criminal record. He was laid off from another job and was denied unemployment benefits because of his criminal record. His driver's license was suspended because of his criminal record. — location: [1195](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1195) ^ref-15598

---

The innocent victim had lost his driver's license not long before the crime, but he had reported it and had it replaced. Little good that did him. It cost him several thousand dollars to clear his name. — location: [1212](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1212) ^ref-18887

---

don't let your Social Security number be your student identification number. — location: [1485](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1485) ^ref-32444

---

ask them why they need it, what they plan to do with it, and how they'll keep it safe. It's your number, and so you have the right to know. — location: [1487](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1487) ^ref-54141

---

Contact the credit bureaus and have a "deceased" alert put on the person's reports. Have copies made of the relative's death certificate, and send one to every institution where the person had an account or a loan. This also goes for health insurers and the motor vehicle bureau. — location: [1766](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1766) ^ref-63203

---

To make sure it happens, and happens quickly, inform Social Security yourself, directly, with a copy of the death certificate. — location: [1772](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1772) ^ref-23658

---

Credit bureaus make more mistakes than any industry I've ever heard of. — location: [1872](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1872) ^ref-43021

---

it determined that an astounding 70 percent of them contained mistakes. — location: [1873](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B000PDZF4S&location=1873) ^ref-62515

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
