---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '50978'
  title: 'Sully: My Search for What Really Matters'
  author: Chesley B. "Sully" Sullenberger III and Jeffrey Zaslow
  asin: B01EFM8P5U
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2017-11-23'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81LdV84A-jL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 30
---
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

# Sully

## Metadata
* Author: [Chesley B. "Sully" Sullenberger III and Jeffrey Zaslow](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B01EFM8P5U
* ISBN: 0062561200
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01EFM8P5U
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U)

## Highlights
And we really try to live in a way that allows for the word gratitude. — location: [1366](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=1366) ^ref-55658

---
In so many areas of life, you need to be a long-term optimist but a short-term realist. — location: [1787](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=1787) ^ref-15919

---
In the cultures of some companies, management depends heavily on the innate goodness and professionalism of its employees to constantly compensate for systemic deficiencies, chronic understaffing, and substandard subcontractors. — location: [2377](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2377) ^ref-59117

---
Besides, I don’t want to go through life as a bystander. — location: [2396](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2396) ^ref-39612

---
Knowing that there have been people like Erwin, capable of doing such extraordinary things—acts that are truly beyond comprehension—I feel that the least I can do is be of service in whatever very small ways are available to me. — location: [2482](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2482) ^ref-15950

---
And sometimes it means attempting the smallest of acts—helping — location: [2485](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2485) ^ref-45907

---
That’s short-term realism combined with long-term optimism. — location: [2513](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2513) ^ref-22571

---
exercise—and the idea that it is best done with others, and in the great outdoors—was — location: [2526](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2526) ^ref-21648

---
“Be grateful for what your body can do, rather than focusing on what it can’t do. — location: [2541](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2541) ^ref-10855

---
Lorrie believes that to meet your goals in life, it’s important to write them down. But that’s not enough. You also need to take what she and others call “authentic action” every day to achieve them. That means you have to knock on a door, or make a phone call, or do something concrete to get you closer to your goal. — location: [2570](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2570) ^ref-26522

---
She recognizes that all of us have to find the courage to leave the shore. That means leaving the crutch of our lifelong complaints and resentments, or our unhappiness over our upbringing or our bodies or whatever. It means no longer focusing negative energy on things beyond our control. It means looking beyond the safety of the familiar. — location: [2654](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2654) ^ref-22486

---
our lives are a combination of what we can control, what we can’t, and the results of the choices we make. — location: [2657](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2657) ^ref-28047

---
“Either you manage the situation, or the situation will manage you.” — location: [2715](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2715) ^ref-30619

---
For those who believe technology is the answer to everything, Dr. Wiener would offer data to prove that isn’t the case. He said that automated airplanes with the highest technologies do not eliminate errors. They change the nature of the errors that are made. — location: [2776](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2776) ^ref-29186

---
automation enables pilots to make huge navigation errors very precisely. — location: [2779](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2779) ^ref-3244

---
technology is no substitute for experience, skill, and judgment. — location: [2783](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=2783) ^ref-23566

---
He knew he might be called upon to act and he prepared himself. — location: [3465](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=3465) ^ref-3952

---
Because women and especially children weigh less than men, they would be more susceptible to hypothermia. They would also lose physical strength more quickly. So it made the most sense to get them onto the boats sooner. — location: [3563](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=3563) ^ref-17714

---
As a Holocaust survivor, my father taught me that to save a life is to save the world.” — location: [3747](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=3747) ^ref-56843

---
“There are people among us who are ethical, responsible, and diligent. — location: [3761](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=3761) ^ref-35639

---
they will be ready if the test comes. — location: [3763](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=3763) ^ref-27216

---
“We leave a little bit of ourselves with everybody we come in contact with.” — location: [4037](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=4037) ^ref-59218

---
“As I will live on in your life, you will live on in mine.” — location: [4046](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=4046) ^ref-43256

---
being a man of your word, about serving your community, about valuing family and the precious time spent with your children. — location: [4055](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=4055) ^ref-53793

---
He knew the best way to learn responsibility was to be given the opportunity to be responsible, and at as young an age as possible. — location: [4059](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=4059) ^ref-10491

---
I am willing to work very hard to protect people’s lives, to be a good Samaritan, and to not be a bystander, — location: [4100](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=4100) ^ref-37709

---
how to get the most out of life and how to be as happy as possible. — location: [4113](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=4113) ^ref-14269

---
“A delay is better than a disaster.” — location: [4294](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=4294) ^ref-19000

---
“Integrity means doing the right thing even when it’s not convenient.” — location: [4298](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=4298) ^ref-21820

---
We need to try to do the right thing every time, to perform at our best, because we never know which moment in our lives we’ll be judged on. — location: [4396](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01EFM8P5U&location=4396) ^ref-13567

---
