docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
    bookId: '19014'
    title: 'The Price We Pay: What Broke American Health Care--and How to Fix It'
    author: Marty  Makary  MD
    asin: B07MXPJ33B
    lastAnnotatedDate: '2021-06-11'
    bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/71RiMWB3TRS._SY160.jpg'
    highlightsCount: 73
---

# The Price We Pay

## Metadata

-   Author: [Marty Makary MD](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B07MXPJ33B
-   ISBN: 1635574110
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07MXPJ33B
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B)

## Highlights

Embarrassed at how disconnected he was from his own hospital's billing practices, the CEO offered to forgive the bill. — location: [108](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=108) ^ref-52551

How about fixing the practices?!?!

---

we don't have malicious leaders in health care; we have good people working in a fragmented system. — location: [109](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=109) ^ref-2293

---

The operations I do today use the same equipment, anesthetics, sutures, and paid staff that I used ten years ago. So how is it that health insurance costs have been skyrocketing? It's explained by the money games of medicine, loaded with middlemen, kickbacks, and hidden costs. — location: [109](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=109) ^ref-56492

---

health care has become another economic bubble. — location: [131](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=131) ^ref-27489

---

overscreening converts a community of average residents into a pool of patients. — location: [200](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=200) ^ref-55155

---

21% of everything done in medicine is unnecessary. — location: [205](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=205) ^ref-11017

---

The politicians debated how to fund health care, but what we really need to talk about is how to fix health care. — location: [362](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=362) ^ref-37833

---

But for a hospital, gouging the sick and injured can mean making 1,000% more. — location: [405](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=405) ^ref-24953

---

For one, it makes it nearly impossible for patients to know in advance what they will pay, but it enables insurance companies to have an agreed-upon discount rate on hospital bills. — location: [450](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=450) ^ref-47786

---

I'm amazed there can be radically different prices for the exact same medical care at the same facility by the same doctors and nurses. — location: [454](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=454) ^ref-53719

---

Hospitals use software called the "chargemaster" that automatically inflates prices to achieve a desired margin. — location: [472](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=472) ^ref-41920

---

It's incredible how far people will go for honest medical pricing. — location: [508](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=508) ^ref-30225

---

The modern-day surprise bills of medicine seem to violate a heritage of honest doctoring. — location: [526](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=526) ^ref-4384

---

Is this game making a meaningful contribution to our country's GDP? — location: [607](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=607) ^ref-31963

---

asking how many patients will shop for care using price information is not the right question because proxy shoppers15—self-insured employers, health plans, and some patients who pay out of pocket—will use real price information to drive the market for everyone. — location: [628](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=628) ^ref-5249

---

financial harm should be considered a complication of medical care. — location: [642](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=642) ^ref-32971

---

Free Market Medical Association. — location: [659](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=659) ^ref-5164

---

Sesame (SesameCare.com)—a new medical marketplace that is rapidly growing nationwide. — location: [694](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=694) ^ref-6766

---

The rationale is that consumers in a distressing situation should have honest pricing information, a rule that should also apply to the living, not just the dead. — location: [699](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=699) ^ref-4428

---

shock-and-awe billing practices. — location: [862](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=862) ^ref-62970

---

The people I met in Carlsbad were not criminals or fugitives from the law. They were hardworking Americans with health insurance. — location: [894](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=894) ^ref-18180

---

"If I mow your lawn for 30 minutes and send you a bill for $8,000, you would say that you are not required to pay because there is no valid contract." — location: [1146](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1146) ^ref-4791

---

"Any nonprofit hospital should spend about 5% of its money on taking care of people who can't pay. — location: [1269](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1269) ^ref-61425

---

In Ohio, EMTs began observing multiple helicopters landing at the same car accident site, each jockeying for the business to transport patients. — location: [1308](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1308) ^ref-18355

---

We focus on the results of a procedure, not on whether the procedure was appropriate. — location: [1592](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1592) ^ref-4741

---

If you have unnecessary surgery with no complications, that's not a great outcome. — location: [1602](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1602) ^ref-39289

---

data must produce meaningful results so people will be prompted to take action. — location: [1637](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1637) ^ref-43439

---

Administrators deliver organizational-level data to doctors and nurses and expect it to somehow transform behavior. — location: [1639](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1639) ^ref-55064

---

the dramatic effects of switching from group to individual data. — location: [1642](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1642) ^ref-20727

---

the doctors had allowed competing priorities to override what's best for the patient. — location: [1651](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1651) ^ref-56003

What other metrics can we provide to hospitals? Any predictive options?

---

patterns of individual doctors' performance and evaluate the appropriateness of care. — location: [1688](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1688) ^ref-5669

---

because this program was 100% homegrown, based on the wisdom of practicing doctors who understood the proper use and misuse of their craft. — location: [1814](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1814) ^ref-24023

---

By including practicing doctors early and by using a peer-to-peer method of sharing data in a way that is nonpunitive and confidential, we were highly effective. — location: [1836](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1836) ^ref-847

---

But it's code for something else. This is doctors saying "You don't understand me or what I do." — location: [1842](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1842) ^ref-57494

---

a method of measuring care must be developed and endorsed by the doctors and clinicians who work in that specialty. — location: [1844](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1844) ^ref-28277

---

Yet again, I saw the disconnect between those making the rules in health care and those practicing it. — location: [1865](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1865) ^ref-39999

---

replacing the sloppy phrase "There is no evidence" with either "It is unknown because it has not been adequately studied" or "It has been studied adequately and has not been shown to be effective." — location: [1945](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1945) ^ref-42599

---

Our reimbursement system should value expert advice and counseling on pain management. — location: [2279](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2279) ^ref-4583

---

For people wondering why insurance premiums are going up, one of the leading drivers is the doubling of prescription medications our country has witnessed over the last decade. — location: [2382](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2382) ^ref-41725

---

If overtreatment were a disease, it would rank as one of the leading public health threats across the world. — location: [2497](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2497) ^ref-55978

---

all too often penny wise and pound foolish, — location: [2570](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2570) ^ref-41969

---

As a busy doc myself, I'm convinced there are so many aspects of a physician's job that can be done by a highly motivated helper. — location: [2671](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2671) ^ref-7346

---

team of doctors and nondoctors who can dive deep into their patients' work, social, eating, sleeping, stress, and exercise life. — location: [2694](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2694) ^ref-4971

---

"The goal is not to save money, but if you do the right thing, it does save money," — location: [2700](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2700) ^ref-63662

---

After jumping through hoops, including paying a $25 fee to get an itemized bill (again, payable only by a paper check sent in the mail), I finally got someone on the phone. Time to play the game. — location: [2741](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2741) ^ref-36310

---

used a website called HealthcareBluebook.com, which shows the typical rates hospitals get paid for various common operations. — location: [2744](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2744) ^ref-10547

---

I told him that Dina didn't have a contractual obligation to pay, which she didn't, because she had struck out the clause saying she'd pay whatever they charged. I added that the law prohibited collections agencies from hurting her credit if they did not have a contract for services. — location: [2755](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2755) ^ref-1450

---

When the collections agency called, I had prepped her to ask the agent to send her a written record of her obligation to pay the bill. Dina had deleted the portion of the agreement that said she had to pay whatever they charged. The bill collectors never called back. — location: [2776](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2776) ^ref-22665

---

We spend enough money on health care in the United States that we should be able to cover every citizen. "It's the waste that strains the system," Sprowls added. — location: [2852](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2852) ^ref-21500

---

Those who want to do their part to solve our health care crisis should work with their state representative to pass the same price transparency law that's now taking effect in Florida. — location: [2857](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2857) ^ref-54092

---

doctors are educated in medicine but not in health care. — location: [3010](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3010) ^ref-17520

---

In most cases, bypassing traditional health insurance and self-funding is the best value for employers. — location: [3030](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3030) ^ref-27798

---

other broker firms that use a flat fee commission — location: [3035](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3035) ^ref-64593

---

make their commission based on how much is saved instead of how much is spent. — location: [3060](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3060) ^ref-36745

---

Gagging a health professional violates everything that sets medicine apart as a noble profession. — location: [3135](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3135) ^ref-40625

---

signing up patients for mail order drug delivery. — location: [3186](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3186) ^ref-4472

---

Insurers may offer less expensive health insurance premiums. But then they use their PBM to achieve a greater profit margin. — location: [3212](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3212) ^ref-56173

---

get a second opinion on your pharmacy benefits contract from an independent consultant like — location: [3270](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3270) ^ref-25483

---

Avoid mail order medications unless you are disabled, unable to go to a pharmacy, or are positive that you are medically dependent on a particular medication for the long term. — location: [3278](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3278) ^ref-43959

---

Support independent pharmacies whenever possible, tell your representatives in Congress and your state legislature to make PBM spreads transparent, and ask that state governments audit the PBMs of government health plans regularly. Pharmacies may be gagged, but you can speak up. — location: [3279](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3279) ^ref-54021

---

It's yet another example of money earmarked for American workers getting diverted into the hands of corporations. — location: [3603](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3603) ^ref-34907

---

Noticeably absent from that 15 years of study were the behavior skills that enable — location: [3690](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3690) ^ref-61520

---

doctors to perform well. Yes, some people are naturally good at teamwork, communication, and humility. But — location: [3691](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3691) ^ref-46182

---

most of us enter the profession fresh off a 20-to-30-year sprint of competing against one another academically—in a culture that promotes independence. — location: [3691](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3691) ^ref-11054

---

Health care experts use the term "costs." We should talk about "prices." — location: [3759](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3759) ^ref-2077

---

their hospital addresses charity care, and if the hospital sues patients. — location: [3784](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3784) ^ref-13393

---

The next time someone says that your insurance company, your employer, or Medicare is paying for something, you might want to remind that person that it's really all of us who are paying. — location: [3796](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3796) ^ref-44751

---

BrokenHealthcare.org, — location: [3854](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3854) ^ref-16444

---

"Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world; indeed, it's the only thing that ever has." — location: [3929](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3929) ^ref-38119

---

ask for a price every time you are considering a medical service. — location: [3930](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3930) ^ref-61380

---

no industry has taken steps toward greater transparency and then realized it was a bad idea and reverted back. — location: [3990](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3990) ^ref-65442

---

Never Pay the First Bill. — location: [4057](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=4057) ^ref-62253

---

to change health care to make it more honest, more equitable, more transparent, more efficient, and, most importantly, more caring. — location: [4088](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=4088) ^ref-48853

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-22 12:29:56
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md
docs/Books/Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People.md
docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams-1684772856009.md
docs/Books/Humble Pi.md
docs/Books/Quiet.md
docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md
docs/Books/Stealing Your Life.md
docs/Books/The Authorities.md
docs/Books/The Hard Thing About Hard Things.md
docs/Books/The Premonition.md
docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md
docs/Books/The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fck.md
docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md

docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '19014'
  title: 'The Price We Pay: What Broke American Health Care--and How to Fix It'
  author: Marty  Makary  MD
  asin: B07MXPJ33B
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-22'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/71RiMWB3TRS._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 71
---

# The Price We Pay

## Metadata

-   Author: [Marty Makary MD](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B07MXPJ33B
-   ISBN: 1635574110
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07MXPJ33B
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B)

## Highlights

Embarrassed at how disconnected he was from his own hospital's billing practices, the CEO offered to forgive the bill. — location: [108](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=108) ^ref-52551

How about fixing the practices?!?!

---

we don't have malicious leaders in health care; we have good people working in a fragmented system. — location: [109](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=109) ^ref-2293

---

The operations I do today use the same equipment, anesthetics, sutures, and paid staff that I used ten years ago. So how is it that health insurance costs have been skyrocketing? It's explained by the money games of medicine, loaded with middlemen, kickbacks, and hidden costs. — location: [109](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=109) ^ref-56492

---

health care has become another economic bubble. — location: [131](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=131) ^ref-27489

---

overscreening converts a community of average residents into a pool of patients. — location: [200](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=200) ^ref-55155

---

21% of everything done in medicine is unnecessary. — location: [205](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=205) ^ref-11017

---

The politicians debated how to fund health care, but what we really need to talk about is how to fix health care. — location: [362](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=362) ^ref-37833

---

But for a hospital, gouging the sick and injured can mean making 1,000% more. — location: [405](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=405) ^ref-24953

---

For one, it makes it nearly impossible for patients to know in advance what they will pay, but it enables insurance companies to have an agreed-upon discount rate on hospital bills. — location: [450](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=450) ^ref-47786

---

I'm amazed there can be radically different prices for the exact same medical care at the same facility by the same doctors and nurses. — location: [454](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=454) ^ref-53719

---

Hospitals use software called the "chargemaster" that automatically inflates prices to achieve a desired margin. — location: [472](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=472) ^ref-41920

---

It's incredible how far people will go for honest medical pricing. — location: [508](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=508) ^ref-30225

---

The modern-day surprise bills of medicine seem to violate a heritage of honest doctoring. — location: [526](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=526) ^ref-4384

---

Is this game making a meaningful contribution to our country's GDP? — location: [607](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=607) ^ref-31963

---

asking how many patients will shop for care using price information is not the right question because proxy shoppers15—self-insured employers, health plans, and some patients who pay out of pocket—will use real price information to drive the market for everyone. — location: [628](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=628) ^ref-5249

---

financial harm should be considered a complication of medical care. — location: [642](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=642) ^ref-32971

---

Free Market Medical Association. — location: [659](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=659) ^ref-5164

---

Sesame (SesameCare.com)—a new medical marketplace that is rapidly growing nationwide. — location: [694](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=694) ^ref-6766

---

The rationale is that consumers in a distressing situation should have honest pricing information, a rule that should also apply to the living, not just the dead. — location: [699](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=699) ^ref-4428

---

shock-and-awe billing practices. — location: [862](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=862) ^ref-62970

---

The people I met in Carlsbad were not criminals or fugitives from the law. They were hardworking Americans with health insurance. — location: [894](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=894) ^ref-18180

---

"If I mow your lawn for 30 minutes and send you a bill for $8,000, you would say that you are not required to pay because there is no valid contract." — location: [1146](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1146) ^ref-4791

---

"Any nonprofit hospital should spend about 5% of its money on taking care of people who can't pay. — location: [1269](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1269) ^ref-61425

---

In Ohio, EMTs began observing multiple helicopters landing at the same car accident site, each jockeying for the business to transport patients. — location: [1308](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1308) ^ref-18355

---

We focus on the results of a procedure, not on whether the procedure was appropriate. — location: [1592](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1592) ^ref-4741

---

If you have unnecessary surgery with no complications, that's not a great outcome. — location: [1602](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1602) ^ref-39289

---

data must produce meaningful results so people will be prompted to take action. — location: [1637](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1637) ^ref-43439

---

Administrators deliver organizational-level data to doctors and nurses and expect it to somehow transform behavior. — location: [1639](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1639) ^ref-55064

---

the dramatic effects of switching from group to individual data. — location: [1642](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1642) ^ref-20727

---

the doctors had allowed competing priorities to override what's best for the patient. — location: [1651](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1651) ^ref-56003

What other metrics can we provide to hospitals? Any predictive options?

---

patterns of individual doctors' performance and evaluate the appropriateness of care. — location: [1688](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1688) ^ref-5669

---

because this program was 100% homegrown, based on the wisdom of practicing doctors who understood the proper use and misuse of their craft. — location: [1814](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1814) ^ref-24023

---

By including practicing doctors early and by using a peer-to-peer method of sharing data in a way that is nonpunitive and confidential, we were highly effective. — location: [1836](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1836) ^ref-847

---

But it's code for something else. This is doctors saying "You don't understand me or what I do." — location: [1842](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1842) ^ref-57494

---

a method of measuring care must be developed and endorsed by the doctors and clinicians who work in that specialty. — location: [1844](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1844) ^ref-28277

---

Yet again, I saw the disconnect between those making the rules in health care and those practicing it. — location: [1865](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1865) ^ref-39999

---

replacing the sloppy phrase "There is no evidence" with either "It is unknown because it has not been adequately studied" or "It has been studied adequately and has not been shown to be effective." — location: [1945](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=1945) ^ref-42599

---

Our reimbursement system should value expert advice and counseling on pain management. — location: [2279](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2279) ^ref-4583

---

For people wondering why insurance premiums are going up, one of the leading drivers is the doubling of prescription medications our country has witnessed over the last decade. — location: [2382](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2382) ^ref-41725

---

If overtreatment were a disease, it would rank as one of the leading public health threats across the world. — location: [2497](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2497) ^ref-55978

---

all too often penny wise and pound foolish, — location: [2570](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2570) ^ref-41969

---

As a busy doc myself, I'm convinced there are so many aspects of a physician's job that can be done by a highly motivated helper. — location: [2671](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2671) ^ref-7346

---

team of doctors and nondoctors who can dive deep into their patients' work, social, eating, sleeping, stress, and exercise life. — location: [2694](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2694) ^ref-4971

---

"The goal is not to save money, but if you do the right thing, it does save money," — location: [2700](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2700) ^ref-63662

---

After jumping through hoops, including paying a $25 fee to get an itemized bill (again, payable only by a paper check sent in the mail), I finally got someone on the phone. Time to play the game. — location: [2741](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2741) ^ref-36310

---

used a website called HealthcareBluebook.com, which shows the typical rates hospitals get paid for various common operations. — location: [2744](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2744) ^ref-10547

---

I told him that Dina didn't have a contractual obligation to pay, which she didn't, because she had struck out the clause saying she'd pay whatever they charged. I added that the law prohibited collections agencies from hurting her credit if they did not have a contract for services. — location: [2755](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2755) ^ref-1450

---

When the collections agency called, I had prepped her to ask the agent to send her a written record of her obligation to pay the bill. Dina had deleted the portion of the agreement that said she had to pay whatever they charged. The bill collectors never called back. — location: [2776](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2776) ^ref-22665

---

We spend enough money on health care in the United States that we should be able to cover every citizen. "It's the waste that strains the system," Sprowls added. — location: [2852](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2852) ^ref-21500

---

Those who want to do their part to solve our health care crisis should work with their state representative to pass the same price transparency law that's now taking effect in Florida. — location: [2857](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=2857) ^ref-54092

---

doctors are educated in medicine but not in health care. — location: [3010](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3010) ^ref-17520

---

In most cases, bypassing traditional health insurance and self-funding is the best value for employers. — location: [3030](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3030) ^ref-27798

---

other broker firms that use a flat fee commission — location: [3035](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3035) ^ref-64593

---

make their commission based on how much is saved instead of how much is spent. — location: [3060](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3060) ^ref-36745

---

Gagging a health professional violates everything that sets medicine apart as a noble profession. — location: [3135](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3135) ^ref-40625

---

signing up patients for mail order drug delivery. — location: [3186](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3186) ^ref-4472

---

Insurers may offer less expensive health insurance premiums. But then they use their PBM to achieve a greater profit margin. — location: [3212](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3212) ^ref-56173

---

get a second opinion on your pharmacy benefits contract from an independent consultant like — location: [3270](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3270) ^ref-25483

---

Avoid mail order medications unless you are disabled, unable to go to a pharmacy, or are positive that you are medically dependent on a particular medication for the long term. — location: [3278](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3278) ^ref-43959

---

Support independent pharmacies whenever possible, tell your representatives in Congress and your state legislature to make PBM spreads transparent, and ask that state governments audit the PBMs of government health plans regularly. Pharmacies may be gagged, but you can speak up. — location: [3279](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3279) ^ref-54021

---

It's yet another example of money earmarked for American workers getting diverted into the hands of corporations. — location: [3603](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3603) ^ref-34907

---

Noticeably absent from that 15 years of study were the behavior skills that enable — location: [3690](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3690) ^ref-61520

---

doctors to perform well. Yes, some people are naturally good at teamwork, communication, and humility. But — location: [3691](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3691) ^ref-46182

---

most of us enter the profession fresh off a 20-to-30-year sprint of competing against one another academically—in a culture that promotes independence. — location: [3691](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3691) ^ref-11054

---

Noticeably absent from that 15 years of study were the behavior skills that enable doctors to perform well. Yes, some people are naturally good at teamwork, communication, and humility. But most of us enter the profession fresh off a 20-to-30-year sprint of competing against one another academically—in a culture that promotes independence. — location: [3690](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3690) ^ref-24613

---
Health care experts use the term "costs." We should talk about "prices." — location: [3759](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3759) ^ref-2077

---

their hospital addresses charity care, and if the hospital sues patients. — location: [3784](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3784) ^ref-13393

---

The next time someone says that your insurance company, your employer, or Medicare is paying for something, you might want to remind that person that it's really all of us who are paying. — location: [3796](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3796) ^ref-44751

---

BrokenHealthcare.org, — location: [3854](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3854) ^ref-16444

---

"Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world; indeed, it's the only thing that ever has." — location: [3929](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3929) ^ref-38119

---

ask for a price every time you are considering a medical service. — location: [3930](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3930) ^ref-61380

---

no industry has taken steps toward greater transparency and then realized it was a bad idea and reverted back. — location: [3990](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=3990) ^ref-65442

---

Never Pay the First Bill. — location: [4057](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=4057) ^ref-62253

---

to change health care to make it more honest, more equitable, more transparent, more efficient, and, most importantly, more caring. — location: [4088](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B07MXPJ33B&location=4088) ^ref-48853

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
