docs/Books/The Premonition.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
    bookId: '34974'
    title: 'The Premonition: A Pandemic Story'
    author: Michael Lewis
    asin: B08V91YY8R
    lastAnnotatedDate: '2021-09-05'
    bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/61mdmv2WbAL._SY160.jpg'
    highlightsCount: 48
---

# The Premonition

## Metadata

-   Author: [Michael Lewis](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B08V91YY8R
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08V91YY8R
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R)

## Highlights

"All science is modeling. In all science you are abstracting from nature. The question is: is it a useful abstraction." Useful, to Bob Glass, meant: Does it help solve a problem? — location: [94](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=94) ^ref-54665

---

Like most everyone else, she needed reminding. Unlike most everyone else, she reminded herself. — location: [317](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=317) ^ref-43305

---

the most important part of the medical history isn't the medical history. It's the social history." — location: [406](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=406) ^ref-19944

---

The hard truth was that there was never time to wait for more data. The moment an infectious disease appeared, decisions cried out to be made. — location: [616](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=616) ^ref-16294

---

In practice, the system had configured itself to foist the political risk onto a character who had no social power. — location: [626](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=626) ^ref-15191

---

Sins of commission got you fired. Sins of omission you could get away with, but they left people dead. — location: [628](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=628) ^ref-39001

---

"We used to tell ourselves, 'You're going to make a mistake,' " said Carter. "The sin is making the same mistake twice. The best is to learn from other people's mistakes." — location: [927](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=927) ^ref-31954

---

"When you go into the details of the cases, you see it's not bad people," he said. "It's bad systems. When the systems depend on human vigilance, they will fail." — location: [991](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=991) ^ref-49377

---

have a second visit — location: [999](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=999) ^ref-48919

---

He made a point of asking questions in plain English, and less in the manner of a doctor than a child. — location: [1002](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1002) ^ref-43859

---

never told them what I would do," — location: [1005](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1005) ^ref-20628

---

Human Error, by a British psychologist aptly named James Reason. — location: [1023](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1023) ^ref-48884

---

best way to guard against error is to design systems with layered and overlapping defenses. — location: [1026](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1026) ^ref-10032

---

"You can keep mistakes from happening if you can identify the almost mistakes. — location: [1034](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1034) ^ref-14265

---

people don't learn what is imposed upon them but rather what they freely seek, out of desire or need. For people to learn, they need to want to learn. — location: [1062](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1062) ^ref-59872

---

One box might contain the solution to a problem in another box, or the person who might find that solution, — location: [1162](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1162) ^ref-59490

---

and that second box would never know about it. — location: [1163](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1163) ^ref-40425

---

they were missing the point. They, too, used models. They, too, depended on abstractions to inform their judgments. Those abstractions just happened to be inside their heads. Experts took the models in their minds as the essence of reality, but the biggest difference between their models and the ones inside the computer was that their models were less explicit and harder to check. Experts — location: [1250](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1250) ^ref-52750

---

made all sorts of assumptions about the world, just as computer models did, but those assumptions were invisible. — location: [1253](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1253) ^ref-23908

---

Richard liked to borrow a phrase, Carter a tool. — location: [1295](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1295) ^ref-29011

---

"There is nowhere, anywhere, as socially dense as school classrooms, school hallways, school buses," — location: [1358](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1358) ^ref-60780

---

He did that kind of thing over and over: take some problem others thought insurmountably huge and shrink it until it seemed manageable. — location: [1561](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1561) ^ref-1783

---

Effective R naught is the term for the reproductive rate at any moment in time. — location: [1644](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1644) ^ref-32781

---

It was an argument about the precautionary principle v. the scientist's desire not to make a mistake, coupled with risk aversion that was all too characteristic of public health bureaucrats. — location: [1761](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1761) ^ref-39565

---

"Experience is making the same mistake over and over again, only with greater confidence," — location: [1832](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1832) ^ref-51850

---

"A peacetime institution in a wartime environment," — location: [1857](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1857) ^ref-6077

---

Its people were good at figuring out precisely what had happened, but by the time they'd done it, the fighting was over. They had no interest in or aptitude for the sort of clairvoyance that was needed at the start of a pandemic. — location: [1857](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1857) ^ref-56524

---

It was possible to spend $1,000,100 on drugs to prevent you from dying without anyone's having any idea if any of them would work; at the same time, inside of a few weeks but too late to save you, some ill-paid postdoc was able to find a cheap cure. — location: [2250](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2250) ^ref-49999

---

A place where you could say to yourself that you were more or less right, even if you were a little bit wrong. — location: [2383](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2383) ^ref-50673

---

You cannot wait for the smoke to clear: once you can see things clearly it is already too late. You can't outrun an epidemic: by the time you start to run it is already upon you. Identify what is important and drop everything that is not. Figure out the equivalent of an escape fire. — location: [2470](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2470) ^ref-62146

---

"We are reactive and tend to only intervene when things are getting bad," wrote Carter. "And what we underestimate is the speed that what's bad moves." — location: [2474](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2474) ^ref-620

---

My response is that a pandemic is not defined by what is happening in the US—it is defined by what is happening across the world (pan = all, demic = people, all people) — location: [2613](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2613) ^ref-28505

---

"They really should just change the name," she said. "It shouldn't be the Centers for Disease Control. It should be the Centers for Disease Observation and Reporting. — location: [2807](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2807) ^ref-46502

---

The people who presided in times of peace tended to have a gift for avoiding or at least disguising conflict. — location: [2843](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2843) ^ref-14554

---

People made for battlefield command did not find — location: [2844](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2844) ^ref-47318

---

their way into positions of authority, at least not until the general public sensed existential risk. — location: [2844](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2844) ^ref-27419

---

There was no system of public health in the United States, just a patchwork — location: [2934](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2934) ^ref-23749

---

of state and local health officers, beholden to a greater or lesser degree to local elected officials. — location: [2934](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2934) ^ref-35896

---

The challenge is that they need to be implemented before things get bad." — location: [3014](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3014) ^ref-16949

---

in any large organization, the solution to any crisis was usually found not in the officially important people at the top but in some obscure employee far down the organization's chart. — location: [3296](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3296) ^ref-50386

---

The one shot America had at behaving well, and thus saving itself, was to remove the feeling that "the government" was imposing restrictions on people and re-instill the idea that people were imposing order on themselves, to fight a common enemy. — location: [3374](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3374) ^ref-44792

---

Far more often than not, some promising avenue of research would die as a failed company. He hated that; he hated the way financial ambition interfered with science and progress. — location: [3480](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3480) ^ref-58895

---

One measure of poverty is how little you have. Another is how difficult you find it to take advantage of what others try to give you. — location: [3695](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3695) ^ref-17362

---

"They didn't know how to ask for things," said Priscilla Chan, "because they'd never gotten anything." — location: [3697](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3697) ^ref-59484

---

Just as 10 percent of the people in any company do 90 percent of the work, — location: [3752](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3752) ^ref-37832

---

"You let the falsehood continue until slowly the falsehood takes over. By the time you're done, you are no longer just filling blank spots. You have this burden of maintaining optics. It's all optics." — location: [3862](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3862) ^ref-9912

---

Why doesn't the United States have the institutions it needs to save itself? — location: [3937](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3937) ^ref-20546

---

From the point of view of American culture, the trouble with disease prevention was that there was no money in it. — location: [4208](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=4208) ^ref-23046

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-22 12:29:56
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md
docs/Books/Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People.md
docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams-1684772856009.md
docs/Books/Humble Pi.md
docs/Books/Quiet.md
docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md
docs/Books/Stealing Your Life.md
docs/Books/The Authorities.md
docs/Books/The Hard Thing About Hard Things.md
docs/Books/The Premonition.md
docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md
docs/Books/The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fck.md
docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md

docs/Books/The Premonition.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '34974'
  title: 'The Premonition: A Pandemic Story'
  author: Michael Lewis
  asin: B08V91YY8R
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-18'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/61mdmv2WbAL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 43
---

# The Premonition

## Metadata

-   Author: [Michael Lewis](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B08V91YY8R
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08V91YY8R
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R)

## Highlights

"All science is modeling. In all science you are abstracting from nature. The question is: is it a useful abstraction." Useful, to Bob Glass, meant: Does it help solve a problem? — location: [94](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=94) ^ref-54665

---

Like most everyone else, she needed reminding. Unlike most everyone else, she reminded herself. — location: [317](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=317) ^ref-43305

---

the most important part of the medical history isn't the medical history. It's the social history." — location: [406](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=406) ^ref-19944

---

The hard truth was that there was never time to wait for more data. The moment an infectious disease appeared, decisions cried out to be made. — location: [616](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=616) ^ref-16294

---

In practice, the system had configured itself to foist the political risk onto a character who had no social power. — location: [626](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=626) ^ref-15191

---

Sins of commission got you fired. Sins of omission you could get away with, but they left people dead. — location: [628](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=628) ^ref-39001

---

"We used to tell ourselves, 'You're going to make a mistake,' " said Carter. "The sin is making the same mistake twice. The best is to learn from other people's mistakes." — location: [927](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=927) ^ref-31954

---

"When you go into the details of the cases, you see it's not bad people," he said. "It's bad systems. When the systems depend on human vigilance, they will fail." — location: [991](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=991) ^ref-49377

---

have a second visit — location: [999](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=999) ^ref-48919

---

“They taught me how important it was to have a second visit when they visited villages,” said Carter. “The second visit made a statement to the villagers, and it usually wasn’t until the second visit that trust emerged.” — location: [999](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=999) ^ref-35669

---
He made a point of asking questions in plain English, and less in the manner of a doctor than a child. — location: [1002](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1002) ^ref-43859

---

never told them what I would do," — location: [1005](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1005) ^ref-20628

---

By his third visit, the nurses were walking him through every stage of the colon-cancer detection process. “I never told them what I would do,” said Carter. “I was allowing them to open the curtain and take a look. You see so much. If people would just spend their time and observe. You don’t need any advanced degrees.” — location: [1004](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1004) ^ref-19732

---
Human Error, by a British psychologist aptly named James Reason. — location: [1023](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1023) ^ref-48884

---

best way to guard against error is to design systems with layered and overlapping defenses. — location: [1026](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1026) ^ref-10032

---

"You can keep mistakes from happening if you can identify the almost mistakes. — location: [1034](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1034) ^ref-14265

---

people don't learn what is imposed upon them but rather what they freely seek, out of desire or need. For people to learn, they need to want to learn. — location: [1062](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1062) ^ref-59872

---

One box might contain the solution to a problem in another box, or the person who might find that solution, — location: [1162](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1162) ^ref-59490

---

and that second box would never know about it. — location: [1163](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1163) ^ref-40425

---

they were missing the point. They, too, used models. They, too, depended on abstractions to inform their judgments. Those abstractions just happened to be inside their heads. Experts took the models in their minds as the essence of reality, but the biggest difference between their models and the ones inside the computer was that their models were less explicit and harder to check. Experts — location: [1250](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1250) ^ref-52750

---

made all sorts of assumptions about the world, just as computer models did, but those assumptions were invisible. — location: [1253](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1253) ^ref-23908

---

One box might contain the solution to a problem in another box, or the person who might find that solution, and that second box would never know about it. — location: [1162](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1162) ^ref-31852

---
they were missing the point. They, too, used models. They, too, depended on abstractions to inform their judgments. Those abstractions just happened to be inside their heads. Experts took the models in their minds as the essence of reality, but the biggest difference between their models and the ones inside the computer was that their models were less explicit and harder to check. Experts made all sorts of assumptions about the world, just as computer models did, but those assumptions were invisible. — location: [1250](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1250) ^ref-48274

---
Richard liked to borrow a phrase, Carter a tool. — location: [1295](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1295) ^ref-29011

---

"There is nowhere, anywhere, as socially dense as school classrooms, school hallways, school buses," — location: [1358](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1358) ^ref-60780

---

He did that kind of thing over and over: take some problem others thought insurmountably huge and shrink it until it seemed manageable. — location: [1561](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1561) ^ref-1783

---

Effective R naught is the term for the reproductive rate at any moment in time. — location: [1644](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1644) ^ref-32781

---

It was an argument about the precautionary principle v. the scientist's desire not to make a mistake, coupled with risk aversion that was all too characteristic of public health bureaucrats. — location: [1761](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1761) ^ref-39565

---

"Experience is making the same mistake over and over again, only with greater confidence," — location: [1832](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1832) ^ref-51850

---

"A peacetime institution in a wartime environment," — location: [1857](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1857) ^ref-6077

---

Its people were good at figuring out precisely what had happened, but by the time they'd done it, the fighting was over. They had no interest in or aptitude for the sort of clairvoyance that was needed at the start of a pandemic. — location: [1857](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=1857) ^ref-56524

---

It was possible to spend $1,000,100 on drugs to prevent you from dying without anyone's having any idea if any of them would work; at the same time, inside of a few weeks but too late to save you, some ill-paid postdoc was able to find a cheap cure. — location: [2250](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2250) ^ref-49999

---

A place where you could say to yourself that you were more or less right, even if you were a little bit wrong. — location: [2383](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2383) ^ref-50673

---

You cannot wait for the smoke to clear: once you can see things clearly it is already too late. You can't outrun an epidemic: by the time you start to run it is already upon you. Identify what is important and drop everything that is not. Figure out the equivalent of an escape fire. — location: [2470](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2470) ^ref-62146

---

"We are reactive and tend to only intervene when things are getting bad," wrote Carter. "And what we underestimate is the speed that what's bad moves." — location: [2474](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2474) ^ref-620

---

My response is that a pandemic is not defined by what is happening in the US—it is defined by what is happening across the world (pan = all, demic = people, all people) — location: [2613](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2613) ^ref-28505

---

"They really should just change the name," she said. "It shouldn't be the Centers for Disease Control. It should be the Centers for Disease Observation and Reporting. — location: [2807](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2807) ^ref-46502

---

The people who presided in times of peace tended to have a gift for avoiding or at least disguising conflict. — location: [2843](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2843) ^ref-14554

---

People made for battlefield command did not find — location: [2844](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2844) ^ref-47318

---

their way into positions of authority, at least not until the general public sensed existential risk. — location: [2844](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2844) ^ref-27419

---

There was no system of public health in the United States, just a patchwork — location: [2934](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2934) ^ref-23749

---

of state and local health officers, beholden to a greater or lesser degree to local elected officials. — location: [2934](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2934) ^ref-35896

---

The people who presided in times of peace tended to have a gift for avoiding or at least disguising conflict. People made for battlefield command did not find their way into positions of authority, at least not until the general public sensed existential risk. — location: [2843](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2843) ^ref-52237

---
There was no system of public health in the United States, just a patchwork of state and local health officers, beholden to a greater or lesser degree to local elected officials. — location: [2934](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=2934) ^ref-26654

---
The challenge is that they need to be implemented before things get bad." — location: [3014](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3014) ^ref-16949

---

in any large organization, the solution to any crisis was usually found not in the officially important people at the top but in some obscure employee far down the organization's chart. — location: [3296](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3296) ^ref-50386

---

The one shot America had at behaving well, and thus saving itself, was to remove the feeling that "the government" was imposing restrictions on people and re-instill the idea that people were imposing order on themselves, to fight a common enemy. — location: [3374](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3374) ^ref-44792

---

Far more often than not, some promising avenue of research would die as a failed company. He hated that; he hated the way financial ambition interfered with science and progress. — location: [3480](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3480) ^ref-58895

---

One measure of poverty is how little you have. Another is how difficult you find it to take advantage of what others try to give you. — location: [3695](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3695) ^ref-17362

---

"They didn't know how to ask for things," said Priscilla Chan, "because they'd never gotten anything." — location: [3697](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3697) ^ref-59484

---

Just as 10 percent of the people in any company do 90 percent of the work, — location: [3752](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3752) ^ref-37832

---

"You let the falsehood continue until slowly the falsehood takes over. By the time you're done, you are no longer just filling blank spots. You have this burden of maintaining optics. It's all optics." — location: [3862](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3862) ^ref-9912

---

Why doesn't the United States have the institutions it needs to save itself? — location: [3937](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=3937) ^ref-20546

---

From the point of view of American culture, the trouble with disease prevention was that there was no money in it. — location: [4208](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08V91YY8R&location=4208) ^ref-23046

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
