docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
    bookId: '10047'
    title: >-
        The Theory That Would Not Die: How Bayes' Rule Cracked the Enigma Code,
        Hunted Down Russian Submarines, & Emerged Triumphant from Two Centuries of C
    author: Sharon Bertsch McGrayne
    asin: B0050QB3EQ
    lastAnnotatedDate: '2022-09-14'
    bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/71I+rh9vFbL._SY160.jpg'
    highlightsCount: 60
---

# The Theory That Would Not Die

## Metadata

-   Author: [Sharon Bertsch McGrayne](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B0050QB3EQ
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0050QB3EQ
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ)

## Highlights

By rights, Bayes' rule should be named for someone else: a Frenchman, Pierre Simon Laplace, one of the most powerful mathematicians and scientists in history. — location: [76](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=76) ^ref-52713

---

At its heart, Bayes runs counter to the deeply held conviction that modern science requires objectivity and precision. Bayes is a measure of belief. And it says that we can learn even from missing and inadequate data, from approximations, and from ignorance. — location: [93](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=93) ^ref-16646

---

the likelihood is the probability of competing hypotheses for the fixed data that have been observed. — location: [241](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=241) ^ref-44472

---

By modern standards, we should refer to the Bayes-Price rule. — location: [302](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=302) ^ref-54115

---

on the one person capable of doing something about it, the great French mathematician Pierre Simon Laplace. — location: [320](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=320) ^ref-42122

---

the metric reform to standardize weights and measures. It was Laplace who named the meter, centimeter, and millimeter. — location: [629](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=629) ^ref-59040

---

The probability of causes was still useful in particularly uncertain cases because it was more powerful than frequentism. — location: [667](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=667) ^ref-5134

---

dealing with trustworthy data was easier with frequentism. — location: [668](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=668) ^ref-55408

---

Mathematicians did not learn until the midtwentieth century that, even with great amounts of data, the two methods can sometimes seriously disagree. — location: [669](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=669) ^ref-51892

---

Undergraduates today study Laplace's first version of the equation, which deals with discrete events such as coin tosses and births. Advanced and graduate students and researchers use calculus with his later equation to work with observations on a continuous range between two values, — location: [679](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=679) ^ref-38332

---

Bayes-Price-Laplace. — location: [688](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=688) ^ref-15496

---

They identified Bayes' rule with equal priors and damned the entire rule because of them. Few of the critics tried to even imagine other kinds of priors. — location: [768](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=768) ^ref-3536

---

"What's the collective noun for a group of statisticians?" "A quarrel." — location: [1052](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1052) ^ref-16544

---

He said he qualified for the astronomy department "because Earth is a planet." — location: [1101](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1101) ^ref-41231

---

Moreover, the p-value is a statement about data, whereas Jeffreys wanted to know about his hypothesis given his data. — location: [1147](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1147) ^ref-61498

---

Jeffreys concluded that p-values fundamentally distorted science. Frequentists, he complained, "appear to regard observations as a basis for possibly rejecting hypotheses, but in no case for supporting them."52 But odds are that at least some of the hypotheses Fisher rejected were worth investigating or were actually true. — location: [1154](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1154) ^ref-34677

---

Britain was self-sufficient in little other than coal; it grew enough food to feed only one in three residents. — location: [1207](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1207) ^ref-25048

---

Bletchley Park clerks catalogued by hand 17,000 ways "ein" could be encrypted, and a special machine was constructed to screen for them. — location: [1322](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1322) ^ref-55827

---

To capture a codebook, Lt. Cmdr. Ian Fleming, the future creator of James Bond but at the time an aide to the head of Britain's Directorate of Naval Intelligence, concocted Operation Ruthless. — location: [1392](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1392) ^ref-31080

---

the purpose of information is to reduce uncertainty while the purpose of encryption is to increase it. — location: [1506](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1506) ^ref-13177

---

He later estimated that Bletchley Park's decoders had shortened the war in Europe by at least two years. — location: [1604](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1604) ^ref-50719

---

At his insistence, his contract stipulated that he would always be paid one dollar more than the football coach. — location: [1903](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1903) ^ref-53569

---

combining two concepts: utility (the quantification of reward) and probability (the quantification of uncertainty). — location: [1958](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1958) ^ref-45393

---

as the amount of data increases, subjectivists move into agreement, the way scientists come to a consensus as evidence accumulates — location: [1961](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1961) ^ref-5834

---

When they have little data, scientists disagree and are subjectivists; when they have piles of data, they agree and become objectivists. — location: [1963](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1963) ^ref-41798

---

work with isolated one-time events, such as the probability that a chair weighs 20 pounds, that a plane would be late, or that the United States would be at war in five years. — location: [1990](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1990) ^ref-60891

---

Bayesians could also combine information from different sources, treat observables as random variables, and assign probabilities to all of them, whether they formed a bell-shaped curve or some other shape. Bayesians used all their available data because each fact could change the answer by a small amount. — location: [1992](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1992) ^ref-26889

---

Probability came very late into civilization . . . [and many scientists find it] rather disturbing because it's not a process of discovery. It's more a process of interpretation." — location: [1999](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1999) ^ref-65521

---

It implies that sufficiently good data will bring previously disparate observers to agreement. — location: [2004](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2004) ^ref-11530

---

its magical powers depend on the validity of its probabilistic inputs." — location: [2007](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2007) ^ref-37994

---

By pointing out common elements that everyone shared, he could unify the most disparate group. — location: [2168](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2168) ^ref-19792

---

"You spend your whole life practicing your humor for the times when you really need it." — location: [2241](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2241) ^ref-27661

---

statisticians should remove some attention from the choice of prior information and pay more attention to their choice of models for their data." — location: [2994](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2994) ^ref-10524

---

Mosteller noted that a single measurement by an astronaut on the moon would be enough to overwhelm any expert's prior opinion about the depth of the dust on the lunar surface. — location: [2997](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2997) ^ref-44503

---

"Far better an approximate answer to the right question, which is often vague, than an exact answer to the wrong question, which can always be made precise." — location: [3152](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3152) ^ref-13015

---

Tukey publicized how even slight deviations from the normal model could muddle the methods of Fisher, Neyman, and Egon Pearson. — location: [3154](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3154) ^ref-46391

---

Brillinger saw that the ID tag resembled the sugar packets in NBC's canteen, he paperclipped a packet to his shirt and wandered happily around. — location: [3198](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3198) ^ref-15140

---

Had Tukey publicized the Bayesian methods used for NBC, the history of political polling and even American politics might have been different. — location: [3269](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3269) ^ref-49880

---

Asked how to encourage Bayesian theory, he answered tartly, "Attend funerals." — location: [3323](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3323) ^ref-27490

---

"The bomb in Spain lies mainly in the drain." — location: [3524](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3524) ^ref-7278

---

"Bayes says that the longer you search without finding the target, the worse your prospects are, because the remaining time to detect the target gets longer, not shorter." — location: [3745](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3745) ^ref-30911

---

On the other hand, those with confidence in Bayes' rule could trace their progress. "Areas that you search go down in probability," — location: [3747](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3747) ^ref-17931

---

"and areas that you haven't searched go up. — location: [3748](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3748) ^ref-50918

---

The curse of dimensionality plagued both Bayesians and frequentists. — location: [3925](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3925) ^ref-25367

---

Frequency-based statistics worked well when one hypothesis was a special case of the other and both assumed gradual behavior. — location: [3981](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3981) ^ref-10700

---

But when hypotheses were competing and neither was a special case of the other, frequentism was not as helpful, especially with data involving abrupt changes—like the formation of a militant union. — location: [3982](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3982) ^ref-57881

---

The Gibbs sampler's flexibility and reliability would make it the most popular Monte Carlo algorithm. — location: [4028](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4028) ^ref-1753

---

"If you want to learn about a distribution or a population, you take samples from it. But don't sample directly." — location: [4069](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4069) ^ref-25724

---

So you replace one high-dimensional draw with lots of low-dimensional draws that are easy. — location: [4073](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4073) ^ref-35195

---

Today, computers routinely use the Hastings–Metropolis algorithm to work on problems involving more than 500,000 hypotheses and thousands of parallel inference problems. — location: [4112](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4112) ^ref-63265

---

The combination of Bayes and MCMC has been called "arguably the most powerful mechanism ever created for processing data and knowledge."18 — location: [4137](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4137) ^ref-6196

---

BUGS caused the biggest single jump in Bayesian popularity. It is still the most popular software for Bayesian analyses, and it spread Bayesian methods around the world. — location: [4166](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4166) ^ref-23572

---

While frequentists can ask only certain questions, a Bayesian can frame any question. — location: [4203](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4203) ^ref-45037

---

Thus the FDA has long resisted pressure from pharmaceutical companies that want to use Bayes when applying for approval to sell a drug in the United States. — location: [4218](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4218) ^ref-42786

---

Terrorists are so rare that the definition of a terrorist will have to be extremely accurate or else many, many people will be identified as dangerous when they are, in fact, not at all. — location: [4455](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4455) ^ref-3783

---

Much online commerce relies on recommender filters, also called collaborative filters, built on the assumption that people who agreed about one product will probably agree on another. — location: [4484](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4484) ^ref-51366

---

Bayesian model averaging — location: [4495](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4495) ^ref-41306

---

Bayesian Model Averaging studies show that when two models that are not highly correlated are combined in a smart way, the combination often does better than either individual model." — location: [4499](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4499) ^ref-42182

---

our prior beliefs about the world with the error-fraught evidence from our senses. — location: [4606](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4606) ^ref-25551

---

if we are certain about the evidence relayed by our senses, we rely on them. But when faced with unreliable sensory data, we fall back on our prior accumulation of beliefs about the world. — location: [4607](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4607) ^ref-56682

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-22 12:29:56
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/An Inconvenient Sequel Truth to Power.md
docs/Books/Guns Dont Kill People, People Kill People.md
docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams-1684772856009.md
docs/Books/Humble Pi.md
docs/Books/Quiet.md
docs/Books/Seeing Gender.md
docs/Books/Stealing Your Life.md
docs/Books/The Authorities.md
docs/Books/The Hard Thing About Hard Things.md
docs/Books/The Premonition.md
docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md
docs/Books/The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fck.md
docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md

docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '10047'
  title: >-
    The Theory That Would Not Die: How Bayes' Rule Cracked the Enigma Code,
    Hunted Down Russian Submarines, & Emerged Triumphant from Two Centuries of C
  author: Sharon Bertsch McGrayne
  asin: B0050QB3EQ
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-18'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/71I+rh9vFbL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 58
---

# The Theory That Would Not Die

## Metadata

-   Author: [Sharon Bertsch McGrayne](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
-   ASIN: B0050QB3EQ
-   Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0050QB3EQ
-   [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ)

## Highlights

By rights, Bayes' rule should be named for someone else: a Frenchman, Pierre Simon Laplace, one of the most powerful mathematicians and scientists in history. — location: [76](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=76) ^ref-52713

---

At its heart, Bayes runs counter to the deeply held conviction that modern science requires objectivity and precision. Bayes is a measure of belief. And it says that we can learn even from missing and inadequate data, from approximations, and from ignorance. — location: [93](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=93) ^ref-16646

---

the likelihood is the probability of competing hypotheses for the fixed data that have been observed. — location: [241](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=241) ^ref-44472

---

By modern standards, we should refer to the Bayes-Price rule. — location: [302](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=302) ^ref-54115

---

on the one person capable of doing something about it, the great French mathematician Pierre Simon Laplace. — location: [320](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=320) ^ref-42122

---

the metric reform to standardize weights and measures. It was Laplace who named the meter, centimeter, and millimeter. — location: [629](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=629) ^ref-59040

---

For the next two centuries few read the Bayes-Price article. In the end, this is the story of two friends, Dissenting clergymen and amateur mathematicians, whose labor had almost no impact. Almost, that is, except on the one person capable of doing something about it, the great French mathematician Pierre Simon Laplace. — location: [319](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=319) ^ref-34197

---
Laplace worked throughout the upheaval and served as the central figure in one of the Revolution’s most important scientific projects, the metric reform to standardize weights and measures. It was Laplace who named the meter, centimeter, and millimeter. — location: [628](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=628) ^ref-60203

---
The probability of causes was still useful in particularly uncertain cases because it was more powerful than frequentism. — location: [667](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=667) ^ref-5134

---

dealing with trustworthy data was easier with frequentism. — location: [668](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=668) ^ref-55408

---

Mathematicians did not learn until the midtwentieth century that, even with great amounts of data, the two methods can sometimes seriously disagree. — location: [669](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=669) ^ref-51892

---

Undergraduates today study Laplace's first version of the equation, which deals with discrete events such as coin tosses and births. Advanced and graduate students and researchers use calculus with his later equation to work with observations on a continuous range between two values, — location: [679](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=679) ^ref-38332

---

Bayes-Price-Laplace. — location: [688](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=688) ^ref-15496

---

They identified Bayes' rule with equal priors and damned the entire rule because of them. Few of the critics tried to even imagine other kinds of priors. — location: [768](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=768) ^ref-3536

---

"What's the collective noun for a group of statisticians?" "A quarrel." — location: [1052](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1052) ^ref-16544

---

He said he qualified for the astronomy department "because Earth is a planet." — location: [1101](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1101) ^ref-41231

---

Jeffreys was an Earth scientist who studied earthquakes, tsunamis, and tides. He said he qualified for the astronomy department “because Earth is a planet.” — location: [1101](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1101) ^ref-58130

---
Moreover, the p-value is a statement about data, whereas Jeffreys wanted to know about his hypothesis given his data. — location: [1147](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1147) ^ref-61498

---

Jeffreys concluded that p-values fundamentally distorted science. Frequentists, he complained, "appear to regard observations as a basis for possibly rejecting hypotheses, but in no case for supporting them."52 But odds are that at least some of the hypotheses Fisher rejected were worth investigating or were actually true. — location: [1154](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1154) ^ref-34677

---

Britain was self-sufficient in little other than coal; it grew enough food to feed only one in three residents. — location: [1207](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1207) ^ref-25048

---

Bletchley Park clerks catalogued by hand 17,000 ways "ein" could be encrypted, and a special machine was constructed to screen for them. — location: [1322](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1322) ^ref-55827

---

To capture a codebook, Lt. Cmdr. Ian Fleming, the future creator of James Bond but at the time an aide to the head of Britain's Directorate of Naval Intelligence, concocted Operation Ruthless. — location: [1392](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1392) ^ref-31080

---

the purpose of information is to reduce uncertainty while the purpose of encryption is to increase it. — location: [1506](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1506) ^ref-13177

---

He later estimated that Bletchley Park's decoders had shortened the war in Europe by at least two years. — location: [1604](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1604) ^ref-50719

---

At his insistence, his contract stipulated that he would always be paid one dollar more than the football coach. — location: [1903](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1903) ^ref-53569

---

combining two concepts: utility (the quantification of reward) and probability (the quantification of uncertainty). — location: [1958](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1958) ^ref-45393

---

as the amount of data increases, subjectivists move into agreement, the way scientists come to a consensus as evidence accumulates — location: [1961](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1961) ^ref-5834

---

When they have little data, scientists disagree and are subjectivists; when they have piles of data, they agree and become objectivists. — location: [1963](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1963) ^ref-41798

---

work with isolated one-time events, such as the probability that a chair weighs 20 pounds, that a plane would be late, or that the United States would be at war in five years. — location: [1990](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1990) ^ref-60891

---

Bayesians could also combine information from different sources, treat observables as random variables, and assign probabilities to all of them, whether they formed a bell-shaped curve or some other shape. Bayesians used all their available data because each fact could change the answer by a small amount. — location: [1992](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1992) ^ref-26889

---

Probability came very late into civilization . . . [and many scientists find it] rather disturbing because it's not a process of discovery. It's more a process of interpretation." — location: [1999](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=1999) ^ref-65521

---

It implies that sufficiently good data will bring previously disparate observers to agreement. — location: [2004](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2004) ^ref-11530

---

its magical powers depend on the validity of its probabilistic inputs." — location: [2007](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2007) ^ref-37994

---

By pointing out common elements that everyone shared, he could unify the most disparate group. — location: [2168](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2168) ^ref-19792

---

"You spend your whole life practicing your humor for the times when you really need it." — location: [2241](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2241) ^ref-27661

---

statisticians should remove some attention from the choice of prior information and pay more attention to their choice of models for their data." — location: [2994](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2994) ^ref-10524

---

Mosteller noted that a single measurement by an astronaut on the moon would be enough to overwhelm any expert's prior opinion about the depth of the dust on the lunar surface. — location: [2997](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=2997) ^ref-44503

---

"Far better an approximate answer to the right question, which is often vague, than an exact answer to the wrong question, which can always be made precise." — location: [3152](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3152) ^ref-13015

---

Tukey publicized how even slight deviations from the normal model could muddle the methods of Fisher, Neyman, and Egon Pearson. — location: [3154](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3154) ^ref-46391

---

Brillinger saw that the ID tag resembled the sugar packets in NBC's canteen, he paperclipped a packet to his shirt and wandered happily around. — location: [3198](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3198) ^ref-15140

---

Had Tukey publicized the Bayesian methods used for NBC, the history of political polling and even American politics might have been different. — location: [3269](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3269) ^ref-49880

---

Asked how to encourage Bayesian theory, he answered tartly, "Attend funerals." — location: [3323](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3323) ^ref-27490

---

"The bomb in Spain lies mainly in the drain." — location: [3524](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3524) ^ref-7278

---

"Bayes says that the longer you search without finding the target, the worse your prospects are, because the remaining time to detect the target gets longer, not shorter." — location: [3745](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3745) ^ref-30911

---

On the other hand, those with confidence in Bayes' rule could trace their progress. "Areas that you search go down in probability," — location: [3747](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3747) ^ref-17931

---

"and areas that you haven't searched go up. — location: [3748](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3748) ^ref-50918

---

“Bayes says that the longer you search without finding the target, the worse your prospects are, because the remaining time to detect the target gets longer, not shorter.”13 On the other hand, those with confidence in Bayes’ rule could trace their progress. “Areas that you search go down in probability,” Richardson explained, “and areas that you haven’t searched go up. — location: [3745](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3745) ^ref-17329

---
The curse of dimensionality plagued both Bayesians and frequentists. — location: [3925](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3925) ^ref-25367

---

Frequency-based statistics worked well when one hypothesis was a special case of the other and both assumed gradual behavior. — location: [3981](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3981) ^ref-10700

---

But when hypotheses were competing and neither was a special case of the other, frequentism was not as helpful, especially with data involving abrupt changes—like the formation of a militant union. — location: [3982](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=3982) ^ref-57881

---

The Gibbs sampler's flexibility and reliability would make it the most popular Monte Carlo algorithm. — location: [4028](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4028) ^ref-1753

---

"If you want to learn about a distribution or a population, you take samples from it. But don't sample directly." — location: [4069](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4069) ^ref-25724

---

So you replace one high-dimensional draw with lots of low-dimensional draws that are easy. — location: [4073](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4073) ^ref-35195

---

Today, computers routinely use the Hastings–Metropolis algorithm to work on problems involving more than 500,000 hypotheses and thousands of parallel inference problems. — location: [4112](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4112) ^ref-63265

---

The combination of Bayes and MCMC has been called "arguably the most powerful mechanism ever created for processing data and knowledge."18 — location: [4137](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4137) ^ref-6196

---

BUGS caused the biggest single jump in Bayesian popularity. It is still the most popular software for Bayesian analyses, and it spread Bayesian methods around the world. — location: [4166](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4166) ^ref-23572

---

While frequentists can ask only certain questions, a Bayesian can frame any question. — location: [4203](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4203) ^ref-45037

---

Thus the FDA has long resisted pressure from pharmaceutical companies that want to use Bayes when applying for approval to sell a drug in the United States. — location: [4218](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4218) ^ref-42786

---

Terrorists are so rare that the definition of a terrorist will have to be extremely accurate or else many, many people will be identified as dangerous when they are, in fact, not at all. — location: [4455](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4455) ^ref-3783

---

Much online commerce relies on recommender filters, also called collaborative filters, built on the assumption that people who agreed about one product will probably agree on another. — location: [4484](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4484) ^ref-51366

---

Bayesian model averaging — location: [4495](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4495) ^ref-41306

---

Volinsky had used Bayesian model averaging for sharing and averaging complementary models while working in 1997 on his Ph.D. thesis about predicting the probability that a patient will have a stroke. — location: [4495](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4495) ^ref-62809

---
Bayesian Model Averaging studies show that when two models that are not highly correlated are combined in a smart way, the combination often does better than either individual model." — location: [4499](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4499) ^ref-42182

---

our prior beliefs about the world with the error-fraught evidence from our senses. — location: [4606](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4606) ^ref-25551

---

if we are certain about the evidence relayed by our senses, we rely on them. But when faced with unreliable sensory data, we fall back on our prior accumulation of beliefs about the world. — location: [4607](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0050QB3EQ&location=4607) ^ref-56682

---

## Non-Kindle Data

### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
