docs/Books/Whistlestop.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '54099'
  title: 'Whistlestop: My Favorite Stories from Presidential Campaign History'
  author: John Dickerson
  asin: B01FD96JQ6
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2020-01-24'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/818+ZmDOGUL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 6
---
# Whistlestop
## Metadata
* Author: [John Dickerson](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B01FD96JQ6
* ISBN: 1455540471
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01FD96JQ6
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6)

## Highlights
a new cable news network would be formed simply for the purpose of completely melting down while covering the scandal. — location: [1547](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=1547) ^ref-5390

---
(This is proof that the reckless Hitler analogies aren’t just the fault of the Internet.) — location: [3340](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3340) ^ref-17499

---
The danger of making one man the route to the protection of liberty, as Jackson’s backers did, is that the focus on a single person invites personal hero worship. — location: [3683](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3683) ^ref-47622

---
People will be tempted to hand over too much power to a single person based on affection rather than reason. — location: [3684](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3684) ^ref-19379

---
The argument formed the basis of America’s two-party system. — location: [3966](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3966) ^ref-52011

---
“rising men do not like to be reminded of the smell of the stables.” — location: [4179](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=4179) ^ref-4516

---
## Non-Kindle Data
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
#toreview

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-17 13:08:09
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-kindle-plugin/data.json
docs/Books/A Case of Need.md
docs/Books/Fixing Medical Prices.md
docs/Books/Highly Effective Teams.md
docs/Books/The Big Four.md
docs/Books/The Killings at Kingfisher Hill.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Point of Contact.md
docs/Books/When to Rob a Bank.md
docs/Books/Whistlestop.md

docs/Books/Whistlestop.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '54099'
  title: 'Whistlestop: My Favorite Stories from Presidential Campaign History'
  author: John Dickerson
  asin: B01FD96JQ6
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2023-05-17'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/818+ZmDOGUL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 6
---
# Whistlestop
## Metadata
* Author: [John Dickerson](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B01FD96JQ6
* ISBN: 1455540471
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01FD96JQ6
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6)

## Highlights
a new cable news network would be formed simply for the purpose of completely melting down while covering the scandal. — location: [1547](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=1547) ^ref-5390

---
(This is proof that the reckless Hitler analogies aren’t just the fault of the Internet.) — location: [3340](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3340) ^ref-17499

---
Woodward and Bernstein revealed the president’s reelection campaign was behind a phony letter that destroyed the Democratic Party front-runner, and yet Nixon went on to win that election. If that happened today, a new cable news network would be formed simply for the purpose of completely melting down while covering the scandal. — location: [1546](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=1546) ^ref-54706

---
Eisenhower was trying to appeal to a larger audience, to people other than the party insiders. Jack Porter, of the pro-Eisenhower delegation, declared, “This Texas steal is the rottenest thing in American politics. Hitler never did anything rottener.” (This is proof that the reckless Hitler analogies aren’t just the fault of the Internet.) — location: [3339](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3339) ^ref-10434

---
The danger of making one man the route to the protection of liberty, as Jackson’s backers did, is that the focus on a single person invites personal hero worship. — location: [3683](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3683) ^ref-47622

---
People will be tempted to hand over too much power to a single person based on affection rather than reason. — location: [3684](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3684) ^ref-19379

---
The argument formed the basis of America’s two-party system. — location: [3966](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3966) ^ref-52011

---
When George Washington left the White House, he warned against the “spirit of party” that would turn the disputes between men like Jefferson and Hamilton into a permanent state of combat. It was too late; the debate between the Hamiltonian Federalists and Jeffersonian Republicans over the best way to interpret the Constitution and the authority it gave to the federal government was well established. The argument formed the basis of America’s two-party system. — location: [3964](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=3964) ^ref-14768

---
“rising men do not like to be reminded of the smell of the stables.” — location: [4179](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01FD96JQ6&location=4179) ^ref-4516

---
## Non-Kindle Data
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)
