docs/Books/Who Will Cry When You Die.md, before:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '57705'
  title: 'Who Will Cry When You Die?: Life Lessons From The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari'
  author: Robin Sharma
  asin: B0055DLZII
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2018-04-07'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/51cV+3CLCvL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 6
---
# Who Will Cry When You Die?
## Metadata
* Author: [Robin Sharma](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B0055DLZII
* ISBN: 8179922324
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0055DLZII
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII)

## Highlights
“Be the change that you wish to see most in your world.” — location: [130](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=130) ^ref-22666

---
A meaningful life is made up of a series of daily acts of decency and kindness, which, ironically, add up to something truly great over the course of a lifetime. — location: [134](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=134) ^ref-22799

---
“Is there a wiser, more enlightened way of looking at this seemingly negative situation?” — location: [159](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=159) ^ref-38539

---
The golden thread of a highly successful and meaningful life is self-discipline. — location: [166](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=166) ^ref-17832

---
the tougher you are on yourself, the easier life will be on you. — location: [172](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=172) ^ref-36142

---
Writing down your daily experiences along with the lessons you have drawn from them will make you wiser with each passing day. — location: [185](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=185) ^ref-20775

---

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-05-16 19:17:32
Affected files:
.obsidian/appearance.json
docs/Books/Oath of Office.md
docs/Books/Quiet.md
docs/Books/Talking to Strangers.md
docs/Books/The 4-Hour Body.md
docs/Books/The Altreian Enigma.md
docs/Books/The Authorities.md
docs/Books/The Big Four.md
docs/Books/The Body.md
docs/Books/The Caves of Steel.md
docs/Books/The Currents of Space.md
docs/Books/The Gods Themselves.md
docs/Books/The Hard Thing About Hard Things.md
docs/Books/The Killings at Kingfisher Hill.md
docs/Books/The Martian.md
docs/Books/The Meridian Ascent.md
docs/Books/The Mystery of Three Quarters.md
docs/Books/The Naked Sun.md
docs/Books/The Premonition.md
docs/Books/The Price We Pay.md
docs/Books/The Robots of Dawn.md
docs/Books/The Stone Wolves.md
docs/Books/The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fck.md
docs/Books/The System.md
docs/Books/The Theory That Would Not Die.md
docs/Books/The Year of Living Biblically.md
docs/Books/Third Girl.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Chain of Command.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Code of Honor.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Enemy Contact.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Line of Sight.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Oath of Office.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Point of Contact.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Power and Empire.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Shadow of the Dragon.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Target Acquired.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy True Faith and Allegiance.md
docs/Books/Tom Clancy Under Fire.md
docs/Books/Valley of Genius.md
docs/Books/When to Rob a Bank.md
docs/Books/Whistlestop.md
docs/Books/Who Will Cry When You Die.md
docs/Books/You Have the Right to Remain Innocent.md

docs/Books/Who Will Cry When You Die.md, after:

---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '57705'
  title: 'Who Will Cry When You Die?
  author: Robin Sharma
  asin: B0055DLZII
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2018-04-07'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/51cV+3CLCvL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 6
date: 2023-05-16 19:13
last_modified_at: 2023-05-16 19:13
---
### [Books MOC](Books%20MOC.md)

# Who Will Cry When You Die?
## Metadata
* Author: [Robin Sharma](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B0055DLZII
* ISBN: 8179922324
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0055DLZII
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII)

## Highlights
“Be the change that you wish to see most in your world.” — location: [130](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=130) ^ref-22666

---
A meaningful life is made up of a series of daily acts of decency and kindness, which, ironically, add up to something truly great over the course of a lifetime. — location: [134](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=134) ^ref-22799

---
“Is there a wiser, more enlightened way of looking at this seemingly negative situation?” — location: [159](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=159) ^ref-38539

---
The golden thread of a highly successful and meaningful life is self-discipline. — location: [166](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=166) ^ref-17832

---
the tougher you are on yourself, the easier life will be on you. — location: [172](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=172) ^ref-36142

---
Writing down your daily experiences along with the lessons you have drawn from them will make you wiser with each passing day. — location: [185](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B0055DLZII&location=185) ^ref-20775

---
